

===== PAGE 1 =====

arXiv:2505.18279v1  [cs.MA]  23 May 2025
Collaborative Memory: Multi-User Memory Sharing
in LLM Agents with Dynamic Access Control
Alireza Rezazadeh Zichao Li Ange Lou Yuying Zhao Wei Wei Yujia Bao
Center for Advanced AI, Accenture
{alireza.rezazadeh, zichao.li, ange.lou,
yuying.d.zhao, wei.h.wei, yujia.bao}@accenture.com
Abstract
Complex tasks are increasingly delegated to ensembles of specialized LLM-based
agents that reason, communicate, and coordinate actions—both among themselves
and through interactions with external tools, APIs, and databases. While persistent
memory has been shown to enhance single-agent performance, most approaches
assume a monolithic, single-user context—overlooking the benefits and challenges
of knowledge transfer across users under dynamic, asymmetric permissions. We
introduce Collaborative Memory, a framework for multi-user, multi-agent en-
vironments with asymmetric, time-evolving access controls encoded as bipartite
graphs linking users, agents, and resources. Our system maintains two memory
tiers: (1) private memory—private fragments visible only to their originating user;
and (2) shared memory—selectively shared fragments. Each fragment carries
immutable provenance attributes (contributing agents, accessed resources, and
timestamps) to support retrospective permission checks. Granular read policies
enforce current user–agent–resource constraints and project existing memory frag-
ments into filtered transformed views. Write policies determine fragment retention
and sharing, applying context-aware transformations to update the memory. Both
policies may be designed conditioned on system, agent, and user-level information.
Our framework enables safe, efficient, and interpretable cross-user knowledge
sharing, with provable adherence to asymmetric, time-varying policies and full
auditability of memory operations.
1 Introduction
The theory of Distributed Cognition [8] posits that cognitive processes are not confined to individual
minds but are distributed across groups of people, artifacts, and their interactions within an envi-
ronment. From this perspective, a collective system—comprising individuals and shared external
representations—can function as a unified cognitive entity, capable of collaborative reasoning and
complex problem-solving. This conceptual framework aligns closely with recent advances in multi-
agent systems [5, 19], where ensembles of specialized agents—often instantiated as large language
models (LLMs)—are orchestrated to solve problems that exceed the capacity of any single model.
These agents not only communicate and coordinate with one another but also interface with external
resources such as tools, APIs, and structured data sources [24, 16].
A key enabler of such collaboration is persistent memory. Recent work has demonstrated that equip-
ping LLM agents with long-term memory significantly enhances their ability to reason over extended
horizons [9, 11]. For example, MemGPT introduces an operating system-inspired abstraction for
managing contextual memory over time [13]; MemTree employs a hierarchical memory structure for
organizing and retrieving information dynamically [14]; and GraphRAG constructs a graph-based
Preprint. Under review.

===== PAGE 2 =====

Resources News KBs
!
!
"
"
# 
$
Resources Models, APIs, KBsAgentsDomain SpecialistsUsersStrategy Director
Logistics Lead
Financial AnalystMarket Researcher
u1
u2
u3
u4
Decision
Logistics
Finance
Market
"
%
&
'
Strategic Computation
Logistic Comparator
Finance Forecaster
Market Knowledge
Scenario 1: Fully Collaborative MemoryScenario 2: Asymmetric Collaborative Memory
Scenario 3: Dynamically Evolving Collaborative Memory
u1
u2
u3
u5
(
⚱
⛽
+
,
Materials: Paper/WoodMaterials: CeramicsEnergy: FuelChemistry: AnalyticsPhysics: Mathematical
u1
u2
u3
u5
(
⚱
⛽
+
,
Materials: Paper/WoodMaterials: CeramicsEnergy: FuelChemistry: AnalyticsPhysics: Mathematical
u1
u2
u3
u5
(
⚱
⛽
+
,
Materials: Paper/WoodMaterials: CeramicsEnergy: FuelChemistry: AnalyticsPhysics: Mathematical
Resources Academic PaperAgentsResearch AreaSpecialistsUserst0 t4 t8
Grant AccessRevoke Access
Usersu1
u2…u5
AgentsDomain SpecialistsEntertainmentBusinessSportTechnologyHealthScience
…
…
…
… …
Figure 1: Illustration of multi-user, multi-agent collaboration. Scenario 1 (top-left): A fully col-
laborative memory environment where all users share unrestricted access to all agents. Scenario 2
(top-right): An asymmetric collaborative memory setup with heterogeneous privilege levels. Scenario
3 (bottom): Dynamically changing access, where permissions are granted or revoked over time.
memory of entities and relations to enable structured knowledge access [3, 17]. These systems allow
agents to store, recall, and build upon prior experiences in a manner that supports more coherent and
context-aware behavior.
However, these architectures predominantly conceptualize a single-user, single-agent paradigm
with centralized, globally accessible memory. This assumption breaks down in many real-world
applications that are inherently multi-user and multi-agent, such as collaborative enterprise assistants,
multi-user productivity platforms, and distributed workflow systems [13]. In these settings, sharing
memory across user boundaries can reduce redundant inquiries, maintain consistency, and improve
collective reasoning (Figure 1). Yet, current research often overlooks these multi-user complexities,
leaving real-world systems to face two key challenges that remain underexplored: 1) Information
Asymmetry, whereby different users have access to different agents, and each agent, in turn, connects
to different resources—making it crucial for memory systems to enforce these asymmetries to
prevent unauthorized information sharing; and 2) Dynamic Access Patterns, where permissions
evolve over time, allowing or revoking user and agent access based on changing roles, policies, and
task requirements.
These asymmetric and temporally evolving constraints pose a central question: How can a multi-user,
multi-agent system maximize the utility of collective memory while ensuring that information sharing
conforms to permissions governing what can be shared, when, and by whom? In this paper, we take
a first step toward addressing this question by introducing a framework designed specifically for
multi-user, multi-agent memory management under asymmetric and dynamic access constraints. Our
proposed framework comprises several key components:
• Dynamic bipartite access graphs. We formalize time-dependent permissions using two bipartite
graphs: one representing user-to-agent permissions, and another representing agent-to-resource
2

===== PAGE 3 =====

permissions. These graphs explicitly encode the evolving permissions landscape, capturing real-
world dynamics such as user onboarding, role changes, and evolving policy constraints.
• Two-tier memory system. To enable controlled yet flexible knowledge sharing, each agent
maintains a dual-tier memory architecture consisting of private memory and shared memory.
Private memory isolates sensitive information to individual user contexts, while shared memory
enables knowledge transfer among users when allowed by the system’s access policies.
• Fine-grained read and write policies. Memory interactions are governed by distinct read and
write policies. The write policy projects raw interaction logs into structured memory fragments,
selectively allocating these fragments to either private or shared memory tiers. Conversely, the
read policy dynamically constructs a memory view tailored to each agent’s current permissions,
selectively incorporating memory fragments according to fine-grained access constraints. Impor-
tantly, these policies are highly configurable, supporting specification and enforcement at multiple
granularity levels—system-wide, agent-specific, and user-specific—and are adaptive over time.
To our knowledge, this is the first formulation of memory sharing that explicitly accounts for fine-
grained access asymmetries in multi-agent, multi-user systems. Our work establishes foundational
concepts and formalizations, laying the groundwork for future research into efficient, secure, and
adaptive collaborative multi-agent systems.
2 Related Work
Long-term memory for single LLM agents. Early work on augmenting LLMs with persistent
context treats memory as a flat retrieval table, but recent systems introduce hierarchical or structured
representations that better support long-horizon reasoning. MemGPT leverages operating-system
abstractions to emulate virtual memory and extend the effective context window of an LLM [ 13].
MemTree organizes interaction history as a hierarchical dynamically evolving tree whose nodes
hold abstracted summaries, enabling continual updates of memory [ 14]. HippoRAG constructs
a hippocampal-inspired knowledge graph and applies Personalized PageRank to integrate new
information while avoiding catastrophic forgetting [6]. GraphRAG takes a complementary approach,
constructing an entity-relation graph over the corpora and retrieving sub-graphs to answer complex
queries [3]. Although highly effective, all of these designs assume a single-user, single-agent setting
with globally visible memory.
Multi-agent collaboration and shared memory. LLM agents increasingly collaborate as heteroge-
neous teams whose members specialize in search, planning, self-critique, and tool calling. AutoGen
provides an open-source conversation framework that lets developers script arbitrary interaction
graphs among tool-augmented agents [22]. AgentVerse explores emergent social behaviors when
groups of agents are asked to solve tasks collectively, showing measurable gains over single-agent
baselines [2]. MoSA (Mixture-of-Search-Agents) uses Monte-Carlo Tree Search to fuse diverse
reasoning trajectories proposed by multiple LLMs and consistently outperforms strong single-model
solvers on math and commonsense benchmarks [23]. COPPER introduces a shared reflector that
learns to issue counterfactual rewards, mitigating credit-assignment issues in multi-agent planning [1].
Most of these frameworks either maintain no persistent memory or assume a fully shared memory
store; Memory Sharing [4] begins to address this gap by letting agents asynchronously contribute to,
and retrieve from, a single common memory pool, but it still overlooks user-level privacy or access
constraints.
Access-control models for knowledge sharing. The security literature offers mature abstrac-
tions for permission management. Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) assigns users to roles that
carry predefined privileges, supporting efficient policy administration in large organizations [ 15].
Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC) generalizes RBAC by deciding authorization through logical
predicates over arbitrary subject, object, and environmental attributes [7]. Our framework inherits the
policy modularity of ABAC while explicitly modelingtime-varying bipartite graphs between users,
agents, and resources; to our knowledge, no existing LLM memory system combines such policies
with provenance-aware fragment storage.
Summary. Prior work establishes the benefits of (i) structured long-term memory for individual
agents and (ii) division-of-labor in multi-agent systems; however, none accommodates the asymmetric,
3

===== PAGE 4 =====

r1
r2
a1
a2r1
r2
rK
a1
a2
aM
u1
u2
uN
…
…
…
ResourcesAgentsUsers
Dynamic Access GraphMulti-User/Muli-Agent System
r1
a2
Private MemoryShared Memory
Responses
Response Access Graph Constraints
query
queryu2
u1
Collaborative Memory
Asymmetric Access
Memory Fragments
Figure 2: Left: Illustration of the dynamic multi-user environment, where multiple users collaborate
with various agents that each have access to different resources. Right: Illustration of Collaborative
Memory. User u1 sends a query q1 and receives responses from agents a1 and a2. These responses
are passed to the write policies πwrite/private and πwrite/shared, which updates both the private and shared
memories. Memory fragments that are not accessible are shown in gray. When user u2 issues another
query q2, the agent access resource r1 as well as reading from the collaborative memory, retrieving
only the information it is permitted to access.
dynamic permissions that arise when multiple human users interact with collaborative multiple LLM
agents. Our contribution is to bridge these threads by embedding formal access-control graphs and
policy-conditioned read/write transformations directly into the memory substrate, enabling safe and
auditable cross-user knowledge transfer.
3 Collaborative Memory
Large-scale, multi-user applications increasingly rely on ensembles of LLM agents that reason,
communicate, and coordinate actions—both among themselves and with external resources such as
tools, APIs, or databases [19]. Prior research [25, 10, 20] demonstrates that granting agents access to
a persistent memory of past interactions can significantly enhance task performance; however, most
existing designs assume a single-user setting, thus overlooking the benefits of cross-user knowledge
transfer. In this work, we present Collaborative Memory, a framework that enables agents to share
knowledge across multiple users without violating each user’s or agent’s access constraints. As
illustrated in Figure 2, users’ queries, agent responses, and write policies collectively maintain and
manage both private and shared memories, ensuring that each agent can only read the information it
is permitted to access.
3.1 Setup and Dynamic Access Graphs
Let U, A, and R denote the sets of users, large language model agents, and resources (e.g., tools,
APIs, a structured data source), respectively. For convenience, we also write U (·), A(·), and R(·) to
indicate subset operators over these sets. We use lowercase u, a, and r to refer to individual users,
agents, and resources.
At each timestep t, access permissions are captured by two bipartite graphs:
GU A(t) ⊆ U × A , GAR(t) ⊆ A × R , (1)
where (ui, aj) ∈ GU A(t) means user ui may invoke agent aj at time t, and (aj, rk) ∈ GAR(t)
indicates that aj can access resource rk. These graphs evolve over time to reflect new users,
revocations, or changes in resource permissions. We define:
A(u, t) := { a | (u, a ) ∈ GU A(t)},
R(a, t) := { r | (a, r ) ∈ GAR(t)}. (2)
Hence, A(u, t) is the set of agents that user u can invoke at time t, and R(a, t) is the set of resources
agent a can access at time t.
4

===== PAGE 5 =====

3.2 Memory Tiers and Provenance
We let M denote the set of all memory fragments stored (write) and retrieved (read) during user–
agent interactions. Each fragment m ∈ M has immutable provenance attributes: its time of creation,
denoted T (m), the user who contributed it, U (m), the contributing agents, A(m), and the set of
resources accessed during its creation, R(m).
In practice, users may want to keep certain memory fragments private while sharing others for
potential cross-user benefits. Hence, we partition:
M = Mprivate ∪ M shared,
where Mprivate contains private fragments and Mshared contains fragments that can be shared across
users. For each user u, we define a private store Mprivate(u, t), which includes all memories arising
from user u’s past interactions with agents up until timet. Similarly, for each agent a, we can define
a shared store Mshared(a, t), which includes all fragments agent a generated for any user up until
time t.
When agent a serves user u at time t, it can potentially access a broader set of memory fragments,
denoted M(u, a, t). Formally,
M(u, a, t) :=
n
m ∈ M
 A(m) ⊆ A (u, t) ∧ R (m) ⊆ R (a, t)
o
. (3)
This set may include:
1. Fragments from user u’s history with other agents inA(u, t);
2. Fragments created by agent a itself while serving other users;
3. Fragments created by other users with agents thatu can invoke, subject toa’s resource-based
permission R(a, t).
In this way, the system enforces agent- and resource-level constraints even while enabling cross-user
and cross-agent sharing.
3.3 Read from the Collaborative Memory
At each timestep t, user u submits a query q. Although the user can potentially access all agents in
A(u, t), not every agent may be relevant to q. Let A(u, t, q) be the subset of agents deemed suitable
for further processing of q.
Each agent a ∈ A(u, t, q) receives q and the relevant memory (as filtered by a read policy), denoted
πread
u,a,t. Then, it generates the response yu,a,t based on the query, memory, and the resources that it
can access. Formally:
yu,a,t = a(q, π read
u,a,t
 
M(u, a, t)

, R(a, t)).
Such a read policy can, for instance, limit the number of memory fragments retrieved or filter them by
specific keywords. To produce a final response to the user, a coordinator or aggregator (e.g., another
LLM module) can synthesize all agent outputs {yu,a,t}a∈A(u,t,q) into a coherent reply.
3.4 Write to the Collaborative Memory
Upon producing an output yu,a,t, the system applies a write policy to insert new information into the
memory. We define two kinds of write policies:
πwrite/private
u,a,t : yu,a,t, Mprivate(u, t) 7→ M private(u, +1) (4)
πwrite/shared
u,a,t : yu,a,t, Mshared(u, t) 7→ M shared(u, +1) (5)
By separating private and shared write policies, users can customize the level of confidentiality
applied to their contributions. For example, these policies may anonymize entities, redact sensitive
information, or block certain kinds of content from being stored. The write policies can also range
from straightforward to highly sophisticated. A direct implementation could simply embed the output
yu,a,t and insert the resulting vector into a storage table. More advanced approaches may incorporate
richer memory management structures [14] to handle structured knowledge abstractions.
5

===== PAGE 6 =====

Granularity and Dynamics Both the read policy πread
u,a,t and the write policies πwrite/∗
u,a,t can be tuned
at various scopes: π∗
u,a,t ∈ {π∗
global (shared by all), π ∗
u (per user), π ∗
a (per agent), π ∗
t (over time)}.
This flexible design lets system administrators and users independently fine-tune which information is
surfaced to each agent (read time) and which is persisted back into the memory (write time), enabling
rich forms of collaboration while maintaining strict access control.
4 Implementation Details
Models All LLM-based components—the task coordinator, domain-specialized agents, the read/write
memory-transformation modules, and the response aggregator—use gpt-4o. Vector embeddings are
generated with text-embedding-3-large. Agents interact with external tools through the OpenAI
function-calling interface.
Multi-Agent Interaction Loop The coordinator LLM receives (i) the user query, (ii) the natural-
language specialization string for every agent accessible by the user, and (iii) the conversation history.
At each round it outputs a JSON object of the form {"agent": ID, "subquery": ...} and
may terminate early by outputting {"stop": true} .
Resources External resources are exposed as Python callables with JSON schemas—for example,
a knowledge-base search defined as query → top_k_results. The underlying LLM performs
function-calling to infer the arguments and invokes these functions via the standard OpenAI interface.
Memory Encoder After completing a subtask, the conversational trace are mapped into candi-
date LLM-generated key–value fragments. Each fragment is annotated with provenance denoting
contributing agents, resources used, and creation time.
Memory Retrieval For an incoming subquery, we retrieve (a) the top- kuser fragments from the
user-specific tier and (b) the top-kcross fragments from the cross-user tier that satisfy the provenance
constraint. Cosine similarity between the subquery embedding and fragment keys guides retrieval.
Policy Instantiation We consider two instantiations of the read/write policies: (1) Simple—the read
policy returns admissible fragments verbatim and the write policy stores generated fragments without
modification; and (2) Transformation—global, and optionally agent- or user-level, system prompts
instruct an LLM to redact, anonymize, or paraphrase fragments before they are surfaced (read) or
persisted (write). We adopt the simple read policy and the transformation write policy across all
experiments.
Response Aggregation Once the coordinator halts, an aggregator LLM receives the original query
together with the ordered list of (subquery, response) pairs produced by agents and synthesizes the
final answer.
Metrics We track three performance metrics aggregated over evaluation phases. Accuracy measures
the average normalized correctness of system responses against ground truth. Agent Utilization
captures the mean number of distinct agents invoked per query, reflecting coordination overhead.
Finally we track Resource Utilization is defined as the mean number of knowledge-base or API calls
per query, serving as an indirect yet measurable proxy for overall system efficiency.1
5 Experimental Evaluation
We evaluate our framework under three progressively complex scenarios, each highlighting a distinct
dimension of collaborative memory management. In all cases, we measure accuracy, resource
consumption, and privacy compliance to demonstrate the versatility and robustness of our approach.
• Scenario 1 (Fully Collaborative Memory): All users have unrestricted access to a global memory
pool, illustrating how cross-user collaboration can reduce computational overhead.
• Scenario 2 (Asymmetric Collaborative Memory): Users have heterogeneous privilege levels
restricting their visibility into resources and memory fragments. We show that even partial
collaboration yields efficiency gains while safeguarding private data.
1Agents such as deep research from OpenAI can exhibit significant latency fluctuations (5–30 minutes) [12],
making direct latency assessments challenging.
6

===== PAGE 7 =====

0 0.6K 1.2K 1.9K 2.5K
Query idx
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Avg Accuracy (0-1)
t
Accuracy
0 0.6K 1.2K 1.9K 2.5K
Query idx
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
Avg Agents
t
Agent Utilization
0 0.6K 1.2K 1.9K 2.5K
Query idx
0.50
0.75
1.00
1.25
1.50
1.75
Avg Resources
t
Resource Utilization
Memory Type
(Query Overlap Rate)
Isolated (0%)
Isolated (25%)
Isolated (50%)
Isolated (75%)
Collaborative (0%)
Collaborative (25%)
Collaborative (50%)
Collaborative (75%)
Figure 3: Scenario 1 (Fully Collaborative Memory). Performance of MultiHop-Rag under varying
degrees of query overlap among five users. Both isolated and collaborative memory exhibit similar
accuracy and agent utilization. However, as the number of queries increases (while remains confined
to the same six domains), resource usage declines for both approaches—yet collaborative memory
consistently achieves a more substantial reduction across all degrees of query overlap.
• Scenario 3 (Dynamically Evolving Collaborative Memory): Permissions are granted or revoked
in real time, testing the system’s ability to adapt while maintaining strict confidentiality guarantees.
5.1 Scenario 1: Fully Collaborative Memory
Cross-user collaborative memory significantly reduces overhead and improves efficiency.
Task We use the MultiHop-RAG dataset [18], which contains 609 English news articles spanning
six domains (technology, entertainment, sports, science, business, health). The dataset includes 2,556
multi-hop questions requiring inference, comparison, and temporal reasoning. We measure accuracy
by comparing answers to ground truth with an LLM-based judge.
To simulate multiple resources and domain experts, we partition the corpus into six domain-aligned
knowledge bases: entertainment_kb, business_kb, sports_kb, technology_kb, health_kb,
and science_kb. We then deploy six domain-specialist agents (entertainment_agent, business_agent,
sports_agent, technology_agent, health_agent, science_agent), each granted exclusive access to one
resource. Five users have full permissions to query any agent.
To introduce realistic multi-user query overlaps, we apply KMeans clustering to group queries into
10 clusters. From each cluster, a subset is sampled to form a set of “global queries” shared by all
users. The remaining queries in each cluster are uniquely assigned to individual users.
Results Figure 3 shows average accuracy, agent utilization, and resource utilization over time.
Under fully collaborative memory, accuracy remains above 0.90 on average across all query indices. In
contrast, isolated memory configurations exhibit slightly lower accuracy, especially as the overlap rate
increases. Collaboration also significantly improves resource utilization. Resource usage decreases
by up to 61% at 50% overlap and by 59% at 75% overlap compared to isolated memory.
5.2 Scenario 2: Asymmetric Collaborative Memory
Partial collaboration increases efficiency while respecting different privilege levels.
Task We curate a synthetic dataset of 200 business project queries, each mapped to a distinct
high-level objective (e.g., market analysis, logistics planning, or financial forecasting). Example
queries range from “Identify high-demand skincare markets in Europe” to “Craft a strategic growth
plan for smart home devices in privacy-regulated markets.” To address these queries, we simulate
four user roles—Market Researcher, Financial Analyst, Logistics and Operations Lead, and Strategy
Director—each with unique expertise. In parallel, we deploy four specialized LLM agents, each
granted access to different resources (market databases, financial forecasts, logistics comparators,
and strategic computation). Access is asymmetric: only the Strategy Director can consult all agents
for a comprehensive view, while other roles are limited to subsets of the agents.
7

===== PAGE 8 =====

0 1 2 3 4 5
Resource Utilization
0
25
50
75
100
125
150Frequency
Market Researcher
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Resource Utilization
0
20
40
60Frequency
Financial Analyst
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
Resource Utilization
0
10
20
30
40
50
60Frequency
Logistics & Operations Lead
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
Resource Utilization
0
20
40
60Frequency
*
Strategy Director
Collaborative
Isolated
Figure 4: Scenario 2 (Asymmetric Collaborative Memory). Resource usage with and without
asymmetric collaboration. Even limited cross-user visibility leads to fewer agent or knowledge-base
calls than a completely isolated configuration.
Results Since no ground truth answers are available for these open-ended questions, we focuses
on resource utilization in the evaluation. Figure 4 shows a histogram of resource usage per user.
Compared to an isolated setup with no memory sharing, asymmetric collaboration reduces overall
resource calls. Intermediate insights discovered by one user can flow to another user with matching
privileges, reducing repeated queries to the same tools or knowledge bases. By the time the Strategy
Director (with the highest privileges) consolidates final recommendations, partial sharing has already
eliminated a significant portion of redundant work.
5.3 Scenario 3: Dynamically Evolving Collaborative Memory
Adaptive permissions allow real-time updates without compromising security.
Task We use the SciQAG dataset [21], a scientific question-answering benchmark spanning fields
such as biology, chemistry, and physics. Five scientific categories are selected, each serving as a
distinct resource. We deploy five RAG agents, each providing access to one category’s corpus. There
are five users, and each user submits 4 queries per category, for a total of 100 queries.
To simulate dynamic access control, we represent users and resources as nodes in an evolving graph,
where edges denote granted access. Starting with an empty graph, we iteratively add edges (i.e., grant
permissions) via Bernoulli trials until the graph reaches 5 edges. We label these discrete time steps
t0, t1, . . . at intervals of 100 queries. Specifically:
• At t0, we begin with a sparse graph.
• From t1 to t4, we progressively add more edges (up to 25 total), representing increased access.
• From t5 to t8, we gradually revoke edges, mimicking a real-world scenario where privileges are
retracted as needed.
Throughout these phases, the same set of 100 queries is used, but the users’ agents are determined by
the current access graph.
Results Figure 5 summarizes the results under dynamically changing permissions. Accuracy rises
as additional access is granted and declines as privileges are revoked, demonstrating the strong
coupling between resource availability and response quality. Agent usage similarly increases when
users gain access to more agents and decreases upon revocation.
Notably, the average number of queried resources tends to drop over time. This behavior reflects
the memory mechanism’s ability to reuse previously retrieved information (i.e., stored memory
fragments) instead of repeatedly querying external resources. The access matrix in Figure 6 further
confirms that users only access agents and resources explicitly granted by the graph, ensuring strict
adherence to access control policies.
6 Limitations
Collaborative Memory offers a powerful and flexible platform for enabling multi-user collaboration
across diverse, dynamic settings. Nevertheless, several important limitations remain. First, while
real-world multi-user collaboration is widespread in industry, large-scale data collection often faces
regulatory and privacy obstacles, forcing us to rely on existing benchmarks or synthetic queries with
8

===== PAGE 9 =====

5
10
15
20
25Edge Count
User–Agent Graph Edges
Grant
Revoke
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
Accuracy (0–1)
Avg Accuracy
t0 t1 t2 t3 t4 t5 t6 t7 t8
Time Steps
0.0
0.5
1.0
Avg Agents
Agent & Resource Utilization
Agents
Resources
t0 t1 t2 t3 t4 t5 t6 t7 t8
Time Steps
5
10Avg Fragments
Memory Fragments Utilization
User-Speciﬁc
Cross-User
0.0
0.5
1.0
Avg Resources
Figure 5: Scenario 3 (Dynamically Evolving Collaborative Memory). System performance over eight
time blocks with dynamically changing privileges. Accuracy (top) tracks the available resources,
while agent (middle) and resource (bottom) usage also shift in response to access graph updates.
Chem. Analytical
Energy & Fuels
Mat. Sci., Ceramics
Mat. Sci., Paper & Wood
Phys. Math
Query Category
0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 4 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 4 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
t1 - Agent Usage
0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
t1 - Resource Usage
A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5
Chem. Analytical
Energy & Fuels
Mat. Sci., Ceramics
Mat. Sci., Paper & Wood
Phys. Math
Query Category
0 0 0 0 0 4 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 4 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 4 0 2 0 0 0 4 2
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 1 3
user 1 user 2 user 3 user 4 user 5
t7 - Agent Usage
R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5
0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 2
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 2
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
user 1 user 2 user 3 user 4 user 5
t7 - Resource Usage
A1: Chemistry, A2: Energy, A3: Ceramics, A4: Paper, A5: Physics R1: Chemistry, R2: Energy, R3: Ceramics, R4: Paper, R5: Physics
Figure 6: Scenario 3 (Dynamically Evolving Collaborative Memory). Agent and resource usage
across user queries from different categories. Yellow rectangles indicate granted access, with values
representing the corresponding usage counts.
simulated multi-user environments. Although these setups capture essential aspects of collaboration,
they may not fully reflect the complexity of real-world scenarios. Developing robust multi-user
collaboration benchmarks is a worthwhile direction to better evaluate methods under more realistic
conditions. Second, our current focus on controlled environments with moderate numbers of users and
agents leaves the complexities of large-scale enterprise settings—where concurrency is frequent and
user roles rapidly evolve—largely unexplored. Third, because our framework leverages LLMs, the
probabilistic nature of these models can lead to occasional hallucinations or policy breaches, despite
our enforcement mechanisms. Finally, evaluating resource utilization in production environments
can be challenging due to unpredictable API latencies; in this paper, we simplify the analysis by
measuring resource call counts.
7 Conclusions
In this paper, we drew on Distributed Cognition to tackle collaborative memory management in
real-world multi-user, multi-agent scenarios. Our framework, Collaborative Memory, addresses
information asymmetry and dynamic access constraints by integrating dynamic bipartite access
graphs, a two-tier memory system, and fine-grained read/write policies. This design supports secure,
context-aware knowledge sharing that respects evolving permissions. In three progressively complex
scenarios, we observe significantly lower resource utilization than in single-user baselines, while
maintaining strict privacy compliance.
9

===== PAGE 10 =====

Disclaimer
This content is provided for general information purposes and is not intended to be used in place of
consultation with our professional advisors. This document refers to marks owned by third parties.
All such third-party marks are the property of their respective owners. No sponsorship, endorsement
or approval of this content by the owners of such marks is intended, expressed or implied.
Copyright © 2025 Accenture. All rights reserved. Accenture and its logo are registered trademarks
of Accenture.
References
[1] Xiaohe Bo, Zeyu Zhang, Quanyu Dai, Xueyang Feng, Lei Wang, Rui Li, Xu Chen, and Ji-Rong
Wen. Reflective multi-agent collaboration based on large language models. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 37:138595–138631, 2024.
[2] Weize Chen, Yusheng Su, Jingwei Zuo, Cheng Yang, Chenfei Yuan, Chen Qian, Chi-Min Chan,
Yujia Qin, Yaxi Lu, Ruobing Xie, et al. Agentverse: Facilitating multi-agent collaboration and
exploring emergent behaviors in agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.10848, 2(4):6, 2023.
[3] Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva Mody, Steven
Truitt, Dasha Metropolitansky, Robert Osazuwa Ness, and Jonathan Larson. From local to global:
A graph rag approach to query-focused summarization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130, 2024.
[4] Hang Gao and Yongfeng Zhang. Memory sharing for large language model based agents. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2404.09982, 2024.
[5] Taicheng Guo, Xiuying Chen, Yaqi Wang, Ruidi Chang, Shichao Pei, Nitesh V Chawla, Olaf
Wiest, and Xiangliang Zhang. Large language model based multi-agents: A survey of progress
and challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.01680, 2024.
[6] Bernal Jiménez Gutiérrez, Yiheng Shu, Yu Gu, Michihiro Yasunaga, and Yu Su. Hipporag:
Neurobiologically inspired long-term memory for large language models. In The Thirty-eighth
Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2024.
[7] Vincent C Hu, David Ferraiolo, Rick Kuhn, Arthur R Friedman, Alan J Lang, Margaret M
Cogdell, Adam Schnitzer, Kenneth Sandlin, Robert Miller, Karen Scarfone, et al. Guide
to attribute based access control (abac) definition and considerations (draft). NIST special
publication, 800(162):1–54, 2013.
[8] Edwin Hutchins. Cognition in the Wild. MIT press, 1995.
[9] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandara Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman
Goyal, Heinrich Kuttler, Mike Lewis, Wen tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, and
Douwe Kiela. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. ArXiv,
abs/2005.11401, 2020.
[10] Lei Liu, Xiaoyan Yang, Yue Shen, Binbin Hu, Zhiqiang Zhang, Jinjie Gu, and Guannan Zhang.
Think-in-memory: Recalling and post-thinking enable llms with long-term memory. ArXiv,
abs/2311.08719, 2023.
[11] Eric Melz. Enhancing llm intelligence with arm-rag: Auxiliary rationale memory for retrieval
augmented generation. ArXiv, abs/2311.04177, 2023.
[12] OpenAI. Deep research faq. https://help.openai.com/en/articles/
10500283-deep-research-faq?utm_source=chatgpt.com#h_7419a1dd48 , 2025.
[13] Charles Packer, Vivian Fang, Shishir_G Patil, Kevin Lin, Sarah Wooders, and Joseph_E Gonza-
lez. Memgpt: Towards llms as operating systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08560, 2023.
[14] Alireza Rezazadeh, Zichao Li, Wei Wei, and Yujia Bao. From isolated conversations to hierarchi-
cal schemas: Dynamic tree memory representation for llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.14052,
2024.
10

===== PAGE 11 =====

[15] Ravi Sandhu, David Ferraiolo, Richard Kuhn, et al. The nist model for role-based access
control: towards a unified standard. In ACM workshop on Role-based access control, number
344287.344301, 2000.
[16] Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Luke Zettle-
moyer, Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. Toolformer: Language models can teach
themselves to use tools. ArXiv, abs/2302.04761, 2023.
[17] Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Beck Labash, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and
Shunyu Yao. Reflexion: language agents with verbal reinforcement learning. In Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2023.
[18] Yixuan Tang and Yi Yang. Multihop-rag: Benchmarking retrieval-augmented generation for
multi-hop queries. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.15391, 2024.
[19] Khanh-Tung Tran, Dung Dao, Minh-Duong Nguyen, Quoc-Viet Pham, Barry O’Sullivan, and
Hoang D Nguyen. Multi-agent collaboration mechanisms: A survey of llms. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.06322, 2025.
[20] Khanh-Tung Tran, Dung Dao, Minh-Duong Nguyen, Quoc-Viet Pham, Barry O’Sullivan,
and Hoang D. Nguyen. Multi-agent collaboration mechanisms: A survey of llms. ArXiv,
abs/2501.06322, 2025.
[21] Yuwei Wan, Yixuan Liu, Aswathy Ajith, Clara Grazian, Bram Hoex, Wenjie Zhang, Chunyu Kit,
Tong Xie, and Ian Foster. Sciqag: A framework for auto-generated science question answering
dataset with fine-grained evaluation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2405.09939, 2024.
[22] Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu, Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun
Zhang, Shaokun Zhang, Jiale Liu, et al. Autogen: Enabling next-gen llm applications via
multi-agent conversation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.08155, 2023.
[23] Sen Yang, Yafu Li, Wai Lam, and Yu Cheng. Multi-llm collaborative search for complex
problem solving. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.18873, 2025.
[24] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan
Cao. React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. ArXiv, abs/2210.03629,
2022.
[25] Wanjun Zhong, Lianghong Guo, Qi-Fei Gao, He Ye, and Yanlin Wang. Memorybank: Enhancing
large language models with long-term memory. ArXiv, abs/2305.10250, 2023.
11

===== PAGE 12 =====

Appendix Arrangement
The Appendix is organized as follows.
• Section § A: Discussion of the Broad Impact of Collaborative Memory
• Section § B: From Query to Response
– Section § B.1 : The detailed pipeline.
– Section § B.2 : The read/write policies.
• Section § C: Scenario 1: Fully Collaborative Memory
– Section § C.1 : Dataset details, including description and statistics.
– Section § C.2 : Experimental setup, including:
* Access Graph Configuration: Description of the access graph used.
* Agent/Knowledge Base Configuration: Description of agents, resources, coordinators, and
aggregators.
– Section § C.3 : Examples of read/write interactions.
– Section § C.4 : Performance breakdown by query type.
• Section § D: Scenario 2: Asymmetric Collaborative Memory
– Section § D.1 : Dataset details, including dataset generation.
– Section § D.2 : Experimental setup, including:
* Access Graph Configuration: Description of the access graph used.
* Agent and Knowledge Base Configuration with Examples: Includes descriptions of agents,
resources, coordinators, and aggregators, along with illustrative examples of agent and resource
input/output.
– Section § D.3 : Examples of read/write interactions.
• Section § E: Scenario 3: Dynamically Evolving Collaborative Memory
– Section § E.1 : Dataset details, including description and statistics.
– Section § E.2 : Experimental setup, including:
* Access Graph Configuration: Description of the dynamic access graph used and how they are
generated.
* Agent/Knowledge Base Configuration: Description of agents, resources, coordinators, and
aggregators.
– Section § E.3 : Examples of read/write interactions.
– Section § E.4: Raw performance data and complete access matrix under different access graph
configurations.
12

===== PAGE 13 =====

A Discussion of the Broad Impact of Collaborative Memory
This paper proposes Collaborative Memory, a modular framework for permission-aware memory
sharing in multi-agent, multi-user systems. Our key contributions include:
• A novel formulation of access-asymmetric memory sharing, explicitly modeling time-varying
user-agent-resource permissions using dynamic bipartite graphs.
• A two-tier memory architecture that separates private and shared memory to balance knowledge
isolation with controlled collaboration.
• Configurable read and write policies that support fine-grained, adaptive access control at system,
user, or agent levels.
• A decoupled and extensible design, allowing seamless integration with alternative memory systems
(e.g., MemTree).
As multi-agent systems are increasingly deployed in real-world applications, the need for effective
coordination and secure information sharing has become paramount. Collaborative Memory addresses
these challenges by enabling shared memory to improve collaboration and efficiency while enforcing
strict controls over access. By enhancing both collaborative capability and information safety, this
framework lays the foundation for building scalable, trustworthy multi-agent AI systems across
diverse domains. We demonstrate its applicability through three representative scenarios: (1) Fully
Collaborative Memory, (2) Asymmetric Collaborative Memory, and (3) Dynamically Evolving
Collaborative Memory.
B Query to Response Details
B.1 Pipeline
Figure 7 illustrates the detailed pipeline from a user query to the final response in our multi-agent
memory-sharing framework, as outlined below:
• Query Submission: When user u1 submits a query q1, the pipeline is triggered within the multi-
agent memory-sharing framework.
• Agent Selection | Coordinator: The coordinator selects the next agent based on the query content
and the access graph, ensuring that only authorized agents are eligible to respond.
• Response Generation | Agents:
– The selected agent gathers relevant memory fragments and accessible resources.
– It generates a response, denoted as yu1,a1,t (in the case of agent a1).
– The response is used to update the collaborative memory.
• Aggregation | Aggregator: After all eligible agents have responded, their intermediate outputs are
aggregated by the aggregator to produce the final response.
The specific configurations of the coordinators and aggregators will be described in the corresponding
scenario settings. Both the intermediate and final responses can be used to update the collaborative
memory. In our current implementation, we update the memory using the intermediate responses.
We will publicly release our code and dataset to support transparency and future research.
13

===== PAGE 14 =====

Coordinatoru1q1
r1
r2
rK
a1
a2
aM
…
…
 AggregatorResponseStart of Query End of Queryblocked
Access Graph
Collaborative Memory
Read policyWrite policy
… …
… …
Figure 7: From user query to response: the detailed pipeline. The Coordinator, and Aggregator are
implemented using the GPT-4o API.
B.2 Read/Write Policy
For the read policy, we adopt a straightforward strategy that combines both private and shared memory
fragments accessible to the user. For the write policy, we employ a system-level transformation
applied uniformly across all users by leveraging LLMs with dedicated prompts. When writing to
private and shared memory, we transform the memory with the different prompts as presented in
Table 1. While we begin our exploration using this unified policy, the framework is inherently flexible
and can be extended to support more fine-grained policies—customized at the level of individual
users or agents as needed.
Table 1: System-Level Prompts for Memory Writing Policies
Memory Type Prompt
Private Memory Extract key concepts from interactions that would be useful for the
specific user. Focus on creating standalone memories that capture core
information. Format each memory as a clear key-value pair where
the key is a concise query or topic and the value is a comprehensive
answer or explanation.
Shared Memory Extract generally applicable knowledge from interactions that would
benefit any user.Focus on creating shareable memories that contain
universal information. Remove any user-specific details or personal-
ized examples. Format each memory as a clear key-value pair where
the key is a concise query or topic and the value is a comprehensive
answer or explanation.
14

===== PAGE 15 =====

C Scenario 1: Fully Collaborative Memory
C.1 Dataset Details
The following table provides a comprehensive overview of the MULTIHOP-RAG dataset used in our
experiments. We employ 609 news articles with an average length of approximately 2,046 tokens.
From these, we derive 2,556 multi-hop queries spanning inference, comparison, temporal reasoning,
and null-query instances. Table 2 reports the detailed breakdown of document counts, average lengths,
and query-type distributions.
Table 2: Statistics of the MULTIHOP-RAG dataset.
Statistic Count Percentage
Documents
Total articles 609 —
Average tokens per article 2,046 —
Queries (N = 2,556)
Inference queries 816 31.9%
Comparison queries 856 33.5%
Temporal queries 583 22.8%
Null queries 301 11.8%
C.2 Experimental Details
We evaluate four multi-user datasets with global query overlap rates ρ ∈ {0%, 25%, 50%, 75%}. For
each dataset, we run two configurations: Shared Memory (cross-user memory sharing enabled) and
Isolated Memory (sharing disabled). Memory retrieval is configured with a user-specific tier size
kuser = 10, a shared tier size kcross = 10.
C.2.1 Access Graph Configuration
All five users (user_1 through user_5) have permission to invoke each of the six domain-specialist
agents. Conversely, each agent is restricted to a single, domain-aligned resource. These fixed access
graphs—complete user-to-agent and one-to-one agent-to-resource—remain constant throughout the
experiments to isolate the effects of memory sharing.
C.2.2 Agent/Knowledge Base Configuration
We deploy six specialist agents, each paired with a dedicated knowledge base. Table 3 lists each
agent’s description and full system prompt. The corresponding resources contain the following
number of documents: entertainment (114), business (81), sports (211), technology (172), health (10),
and science (21), each indexed with precomputed embeddings.
15

===== PAGE 16 =====

Table 3: Domain agents and their system prompts in the fully collaborative
scenario.
Agent Description System Prompt
entertainment_
agent Specialist in entertain-
ment news—films,
TV , music, celebrity
culture, and pop-
culture trends.
You are an Entertainment News specialist with
deep expertise in:
• Summarizing the latest developments in film,
television, and music
• Contextualizing celebrity news and red-carpet
events
• Tracking pop-culture trends and fandom reac-
tions
• Providing concise, engaging overviews of enter-
tainment topics
Always check relevant memories first. When those
are insufficient, use the available tools. Prioritize
information from memories and tools.
business_
agent Specialist in business
news—markets, com-
panies, economics,
and finance.
You are a Business News specialist with deep ex-
pertise in:
• Reporting market movements and stock-market
summaries
• Explaining corporate earnings, M&A, and lead-
ership changes
• Analyzing economic indicators and policy devel-
opments
• Providing clear explanations of financial con-
cepts and trends
Always check relevant memories first. When those
are insufficient, use the available tools. Prioritize
information from memories and tools.
sports_agent Specialist in sports
news—games, scores,
athletes, and tourna-
ment analysis.
You are a Sports News specialist with deep exper-
tise in:
• Summarizing match results and key highlights
• Interpreting player statistics and performance
metrics
• Previewing upcoming fixtures and tournament
storylines
• Offering tactical analysis and historical context
Always check relevant memories first. When those
are insufficient, use the available tools. Prioritize
information from memories and tools.
technology_
agent Specialist in technol-
ogy news—gadgets,
innovations, startups,
and industry trends.
You are a Technology News specialist with deep
expertise in:
• Covering product launches and tech reviews
• Analyzing startup ecosystems and funding
rounds
• Tracking breakthroughs in AI, software, and
hardware
• Explaining complex technical concepts in acces-
sible terms
Always check relevant memories first. When those
are insufficient, use the available tools. Prioritize
information from memories and tools.
Continued on next page
16

===== PAGE 17 =====

Table 3: Domain agents and their system prompts in the fully collaborative
scenario. (continued)
Agent Description System Prompt
health_agent Specialist in health
news—medical re-
search, public health,
wellness, and policy.
You are a Health News specialist with deep exper-
tise in:
• Summarizing clinical studies and medical break-
throughs
• Explaining public-health announcements and
guidelines
• Contextualizing wellness and fitness trends
• Clarifying healthcare policy and its societal im-
pact
Always check relevant memories first. When those
are insufficient, use the available tools. Prioritize
information from memories and tools.
science_agent Specialist in science
news—discoveries in
physics, biology, en-
vironment, and re-
search.
You are a Science News specialist with deep exper-
tise in:
• Reporting on breakthroughs across physical and
life sciences
• Interpreting new research findings and method-
ologies
• Explaining fundamental scientific concepts
clearly
• Exploring implications for technology, environ-
ment, and society
Always check relevant memories first. When those
are insufficient, use the available tools. Prioritize
information from memories and tools.
C.3 Examples
To illustrate the direct impact of persistent memory on resource efficiency, Table 4 presents two
“write–then–read” examples. Each example details a memory fragment’s unique identifier, key–value
content, the query that generated it, and the subsequent query that retrieved it. These cases show that
later questions can be answered by recalling existing fragments—without issuing new knowledge-base
searches—thereby eliminating redundant external calls and reducing overall resource usage.
Table 4: Memory write–read examples for user_3 in the fully collabora-
tive scenario, showing both user-specific and cross-user entries.
Example 1 (Private Memory)
Discussion: This private fragment captures TechCrunch’s critical perspective on Meta by sum-
marizing two related reports, enabling the same user to answer a subsequent AI-related query
with richer context.
Memory ID 9bea41d8-7d5a-430a-bd5d-a0bf42a3128f
Key TechCrunch ’s perspective on Meta
Value TechCrunch’s reports on Meta from October 19, 2023, and November 30,
2023, demonstrate a consistent critical perspective towards Meta’s policies and
practices. The reports focus on moderation issues affecting Palestinian voices
and the legality and fairness of Meta’s ad-free subscription service, highlighting
concerns about free expression, consumer rights, and regulatory compliance.
17

===== PAGE 18 =====

Generated at Query #51 (user_3): After TechCrunch reported on Meta’s moderation issues
affecting Palestinian voices on October 19, 2023, and again on Meta’s ad-free
subscription service being potentially illegal and unfair on November 30, 2023,
was there consistency in the news source’s critical perspective towards Meta’s
policies and practices?
Used at Query #54 (user_3): Who is the Silicon Valley figure associated with the rise
of artificial intelligence, mentioned in articles by ’The Age’, ’Fortune’, and
’TechCrunch’, who faced no removal efforts by Anthropic co-founders, has
been described as generous and impactful, yet is also theorized to have had
transparency issues with the board?
Example 2 (Shared Memory)
Discussion: Highlights cross-user sharing, with a fragment about Sam Bankman-Fried’s criminal
trial about cryptocurrency generated by user_2 and reused by user_3 for a related financial
question.
Memory ID 01d1b5d4-0f17-42c6-903c-e40e572019a4
Key Who is facing a criminal trial related to cryptocurrency fraud?
Value Sam Bankman-Fried, the former CEO of the crypto exchange FTX, is facing a
criminal trial. He was once considered the trustworthy face of the cryptocur-
rency industry and is accused of committing fraud for personal gain.
Generated by Query #10 (user_2): Who is the individual facing a criminal trial, as reported
by both TechCrunch and Fortune, who was once considered the trustworthy
face of the cryptocurrency industry according to The Verge, and is accused by
the prosecution of committing fraud for personal gain?
Used by Query #15 (user_3): Who is the individual associated with the crypto exchange
FTX, who has been accused of using customer funds for a buyout and is facing
multiple charges of fraud and conspiracy, as reported by sources like Fortune,
The Verge, and TechCrunch?
C.4 Performance Breakdown by Query Type
Figure 8 breaks down performance by query type—(top row) inference, (middle) comparison, and
(bottom) temporal—across three key metrics: average accuracy (left), agent utilization (center),
and resource utilization (right). In each plot, solid lines show the shared-memory condition and
dashed lines the isolated-memory condition; colors distinguish global query overlap rates (0%, 25%,
50%, and 75%). Horizontal red lines in the accuracy panels indicate the human-annotated evidence
upper-bounds for each task.
For inference queries, both configurations achieve near-ceiling accuracy, but shared memory steadily
reduces the number of agent calls and external retrievals, particularly at higher overlap rates. Compar-
ison tasks exhibit a small accuracy gain under sharing, with a more pronounced drop in resource usage
as overlap increases. Temporal queries, which are hardest, benefit most in resource efficiency from
shared memory, while maintaining comparable accuracy and modest reductions in agent invocations.
18

===== PAGE 19 =====

0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Avg Accuracy (0-1)
Inference
0.98
Accuracy
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
Avg Agents
Agent Utilization
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
Avg Resources
Resource Utilization
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Avg Accuracy (0-1)
Comparison
0.80
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
Avg Agents
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
Avg Resources
0 0.6K 1.2K 1.9K 2.5K
Query idx
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Avg Accuracy (0-1)
Temporal
0.56
t
0 0.6K 1.2K 1.9K 2.5K
Query idx
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
Avg Agents
t
0 0.6K 1.2K 1.9K 2.5K
Query idx
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
Avg Resources
t
Memory Type
(Query Overlap Rate)
Isolated (0%)
Isolated (25%)
Isolated (50%)
Isolated (75%)
Collaborative (0%)
Collaborative (25%)
Collaborative (50%)
Collaborative (75%)
Human Annotated Evidence
Figure 8: Performance by query type over five time bins: (left) average accuracy, (center) average
agents per query, and (right) average external retrievals per query.
19

===== PAGE 20 =====

D Scenario 2: Asymmetric Collaborative Memory
This scenario simulates a collaborative reasoning environment involving multiple users and agents
operating under access constraints and shared memory policies. The system comprises four users,
each assigned a predefined role: market researcher, financial analyst, logistics and operations lead,
and strategy director (user 4). These roles determine the scope of interaction with specialized
agents—for example, the market researcher is restricted to delegating subtasks to the market_agent,
while the strategy director, who has the highest level of access, can interact with all four agents
across domains. This role-based routing ensures efficient task decomposition, policy enforcement,
and targeted agent utilization. Figure 9 illustrates the system pipeline for Scenario 2, showcasing
the coordinated collaboration among users, agents, and shared resources in response to a complex,
cross-domain query. Further implementation details are provided in the following sections.
Figure 9: System pipeline for Scenario 2, illustrating the collaboration among users, agents, and
resources in response to a complex query. The Decomposer, Coordinator, and Aggregator are
implemented using the GPT-4o API.
D.1 Dataset Details
We use GPT-4o to synthesize a dataset designed to simulate multi-user, multi-agent collaborative
experiments. The dataset consists of 200 business project scenarios, evenly split between 100 easy
and 100 hard queries. The prompt used to generate the dataset and an example of generated dataset
are shown below.
Prompt = f """
Ge ne ra te a JSON object d e s c r i b i n g a r e a l i s t i c { d i f f i c u l t y . upper () } bu sin es s project
sc en ar io .
The format should be :
"{ p r o j e c t _ i d }": {{
" query ": " R e a l i s t i c bus in es s o b j e c t i v e ( e . g . , enter Latin Am eri ca n e - commerce , assess
demand for AI s er vic es in Asia ) " ,
" users ": [
{" user_id ": " user_1 " , " role ": " market "} ,
{" user_id ": " user_2 " , " role ": " finance "} ,
{" user_id ": " user_3 " , " role ": " l o g i s t i c s "} ,
{" user_id ": " user_4 " , " role ": " d e c i s i o n _ m a k e r "}
]
}}
20

===== PAGE 21 =====

Output ONLY valid JSON . No e x p l a n a t i o n . Avoid ma rkd ow n syntax .
"""
Dataset example :
" p r o j e c t _ e a s y _ 0 1 ": {
" query ": " Id en ti fy high - demand s ki nc are markets in Europe ." ,
" users ": [
{
" user_id ": " user_1 " ,
" role ": " market "
} ,
{
" user_id ": " user_2 " ,
" role ": " finance "
} ,
{
" user_id ": " user_3 " ,
" role ": " l o g i s t i c s "
} ,
{
" user_id ": " user_4 " ,
" role ": " d e c i s i o n _ m a k e r "
}
]
}
D.2 Experimental Details
We design two types of experiments to evaluate our system: one with memory sharing and one
without, memory retrieval is configured with a user-specific tier sizekuser = 20, a shared tier size
kcross = 20 . To simulate realistic multi-user, multi-agent interactions, we initialize four distinct
users, each with specific role descriptions. These users are assigned varying levels of access to a set
of specialized agents. Each agent, in turn, has controlled access to a set of task-relevant resources,
forming a hierarchical access structure that mirrors real-world organizational settings.
The agent pool consists of four domain-specific agents: market_agent, finance_agent,
logistics_agent, and decision_agent. Each agent is guided by a domain-specific system
prompt that reflects its area of expertise. These agents interact with task-relevant resources sim-
ulated by the GPT-4o API, including a market knowledge base ( market_kb), a financial forecast
model (finance_forecaster), a logistics planning tool (logistics_comparator), and a strate-
gic reasoning module ( strategic_computation). For each agent and resource, we provide a
representative query-response example to illustrate their behavior and capabilities. Detailed descrip-
tions of the agents and resources can be found in Table 7 and Table 9.
m a r k e t _ a g e n t :
Query :
Conduct a c o m p r e h e n s i v e an al ys is of c ons um er s ki nc ar e trends and p r e f e r e n c e s in various
Eu ro pe an c o u n t r i e s to id en ti fy p o t e n t i a l high - demand markets .
Re sp on se :
Based on the ana ly si s of co ns ume r s kin ca re trends and p r e f e r e n c e s in various Eur op ea n
countries , we can i de nt if y p o t e n t i a l high - demand markets . Here are the i ns ig ht s :
1. ** Germany **: C o n s u m e r s are i n c r e a s i n g l y i n t e r e s t e d in health and wellness ,
sustainability , and eco - fr ie nd ly p ro duc ts . The market shows a strong p r e f e r e n c e for
p e r s o n a l i z e d sk in car e s o l u t i o n s and tech - driven pr od uc ts .
2. ** Sweden **: ...
3. ** France **: ...
4. ** Italy **: ...
5. ** UK **: ...
6. ** N e t h e r l a n d s **: ...
7. ** S w i t z e r l a n d **: ...
These c o u n t r i e s reflect high - demand markets due to their s pec if ic trends and c on su me r
p r e f e r e n c e s . They align with broader Eu ro pe an trends such as sustainability ,
minimalism , personalization , and clean beauty , i n d i c a t i n g p o t e n t i a l p r o f i t a b i l i t y
for sk in ca re p ro duc ts that cater to these p r e f e r e n c e s .
finance_agent:
Query:
Analyze the economic indicators and purchasing power in Germany and other identified high-demand European
markets to assess the financial viability and potential profitability of entering these skincare
markets.
21

===== PAGE 22 =====

Response:
To assess the financial viability and potential profitability of entering high-demand skincare markets in
Europe, we need to analyze the economic indicators and purchasing power in Germany and other
identified markets such as Sweden, France, Italy, the UK, the Netherlands, and Switzerland.
### Economic Indicators and Purchasing Power Analysis:
1. **Germany**:
- **GDP Growth**: Stable growth rate around 1-2%.
- **Inflation Rate**: Stabilizing around 2-3%.
- **Unemployment Rate**: Low, enhancing consumer spending capacity.
- **Purchasing Power**: High disposable income, indicating potential for premium product sales.
2. **Sweden**: ...
3. **France**: ...
4. **Italy**: ...
5. **UK**: ...
6. **Netherlands**: ...
7. **Switzerland**: ..
### Financial Viability and Profitability Assessment:
- **High Disposable Income**: Countries like Germany, Sweden, France, the UK, Netherlands, and Switzerland
have high disposable incomes, indicating strong potential for premium skincare product sales.
- **Stable Economic Conditions**: ...
- **Consumer Preferences**: ...
### Recommendation:
Entering the skincare markets in Germany, Sweden, France, Italy, the UK, the Netherlands, and Switzerland
is financially viable and potentially profitable due to their stable economic conditions, high
purchasing power, and alignment with consumer preferences for premium, sustainable, and innovative
products.
logistics_agent
Query:
Evaluate the logistical and supply chain requirements for distributing skincare products across Germany
and other identified high-demand European markets, focusing on high-demand regions.
Response:
To evaluate the logistical and supply chain requirements for distributing skincare products across Germany
and other identified high-demand European markets, we need to consider the infrastructure,
regulatory environment, and distribution networks in these regions.
### Logistical and Supply Chain Evaluation:
1. **Germany**:
- **Infrastructure**: Highly efficient with robust road, rail, and port systems. Central location within
Europe facilitates access to various markets.
- **Regulatory Environment**: Supportive of business operations with strong manufacturing and
distribution networks.
- **Distribution Networks**: Well-developed, enabling efficient distribution across the country and to
neighboring regions.
...
### Final Recommendation:
- **Germany**: Leverage its central location and efficient infrastructure for distribution across Europe.
Its strong regulatory environment supports seamless operations.
...
Overall, these countries offer favorable logistical and supply chain conditions for distributing skincare
products, aligning with consumer preferences and economic indicators. Entering these markets is
viable and potentially profitable, given their infrastructure, regulatory support, and distribution
capabilities.
decision_agent
Query:
Synthesize the insights from market_agent, finance_agent, and logistics_agent to provide a comprehensive
recommendation for entering high-demand skincare markets in Europe, focusing on Germany and other
identified regions.
Response:
### Comprehensive Recommendation for Entering High-Demand Skincare Markets in Europe
Based on the synthesis of insights from consumer trends, economic indicators, and logistical evaluations,
the following comprehensive recommendation is provided for entering high-demand skincare markets in
Europe, focusing on Germany and other identified regions:
22

===== PAGE 23 =====

#### Step 1: Consumer Trends and Preferences Analysis
- **Germany**: High demand for personalized, eco-friendly, and tech-driven skincare products.
...
#### Step 2: Economic Indicators and Purchasing Power Analysis
...
#### Step 3: Logistical and Supply Chain Evaluation
...
### Final Recommendation:
1. **Market Entry Strategy**:
- **Germany**: Serve as a central hub for distribution across Europe, leveraging its efficient
infrastructure and strong regulatory support.
...
2. **Product Strategy**: ...
3. **Operational Strategy**: ...
By focusing on these high-demand regions and aligning product offerings with consumer preferences and
economic conditions, the entry into European skincare markets is positioned for success, with
potential profitability driven by strong purchasing power and stable economic indicators.
market_kb
input:
consumer data in European skincare market.
output:
**Consumer Data in the European Skincare Market**
**Overview:**
The European skincare market remains one of the largest and most mature sectors within the beauty and
personal care industry. As of 2023, the market continues to exhibit steady growth driven by various
factors including increasing consumer awareness of skincare ingredients, a rising preference for
sustainable and ethical products, and the influence of digital platforms.
**Consumer Demographics:**
1. **Age Groups:**
...
**Consumer Preferences:**
1. **Ingredient Consciousness:**
...
**Influence of Digital Platforms:**
...
**Challenges:**
...
**Conclusion:**
The European skincare market is diverse and dynamic, with an increasing focus on products that prioritize
health, sustainability, and ethical standards. Brands that adapt to these changing consumer
preferences and leverage digital innovations are well-positioned to succeed in this competitive
landscape.
finance_forecaster
input:
Financial modeling and cost projections for distributing skincare products across high-demand European
markets, considering logistics and supply chain requirements.
output:
To forecast the financial outlook for distributing skincare products across high-demand European markets,
we need to consider several key elements: market size, demand growth, logistics and supply chain
costs, pricing strategy, and competitive landscape. Below is a simplified projection model.
1. **Revenue Forecast:**
- **Market Demand Size:** Assume penetration into markets like Germany, France, and the UK (collectively
accounting for a large portion of the EU skincare market).
- **Demand Growth:** Skincare product demand is expected to grow at approximately 5-7% annually due to
increased consumer awareness and preference for skincare. Given the high demand and quality of
products, you might capture a market share of 0.5-1% in the first year.
- **Average Retail Price:** Estimate an average retail price for your skincare product at EUR 50 per
unit.
- **Units Sold:** Initial distribution could lead to approximately 100,000 units sold across all markets
in the first year, expanding significantly thereafter.
23

===== PAGE 24 =====

**Projected Revenue First Year:**
Revenue = Units Sold * Average Retail Price
Revenue = 100,000 * EUR 50 = EUR 5,000,000
2. **Cost Forecast:**
...
3. **ROI Analysis:**
...
**Forecast Summary:**
If executed well with strong marketing, streamlined supply chain, and effective distribution, entering
high-demand European markets could achieve substantial revenue growth and profitability. Gradual
market share increases and scaling operations should provide opportunities to optimize costs and
improve net profits. Investments in logistics optimization, brand establishment, and customer loyalty
programs could enhance ROI over the subsequent years, potentially reaching 40-50% as operations
stabilize and market presence strengthens.
logistics_comparator:
input:
{
"options": [
"Germany",
"France",
"United Kingdom",
"Italy",
"Spain"
],
"criteria": "logistical and supply chain requirements for high-demand regions"
}
output:
When considering ’logistical and supply chain requirements for high-demand regions,’ there are several
factors to take into account, including infrastructure efficiency, existing trade networks,
regulatory environment, and geographic location. Here’s a ranking based on these considerations:
1. **Germany**: Germany is known for its highly efficient infrastructure system, including roads, railways,
and ports. It has central access to the European market, making it a pivotal hub for logistics and
supply chain operations. Its regulatory framework generally supports business operations, and it has
strong manufacturing and distribution networks.
2. **United Kingdom**:
...
3. **France**:
...
4. **Italy**:
...
5. **Spain**:
...
This ranking reflects the complexity and efficiency of the logistics and supply chain sector in each
country, considering their ability to manage and fulfill demands across high-demand regions
efficiently.
strategic_computation
input:
{
"expression": "Calculate the new profit margin after a 5% price increase, assuming costs remain constant
and demand elasticity is low."
}
output:
To evaluate the new profit margin after a 5% price increase, we need to understand how the increase in
price affects revenue and then calculate the resulting profit margin under the assumption that costs
remain constant and demand elasticity is low.
Let’s break down the process:
1. **Initial Setup**:
- Assume the original selling price is P.
- Assume the cost per unit is C.
- Assume the initial quantity sold is Q.
2. **Initial Profit Margin**:
24

===== PAGE 25 =====

- Initial revenue: R = P * Q
- Initial total cost: T = C * Q
- Initial profit: Profit = R - T = (P * Q) - (C * Q) = (P - C) * Q
- Initial profit margin: Profit Margin = Profit / R = ((P - C) * Q) / (P * Q) = (P - C) / P
3. **Price Increase**:
- New selling price: P’ = P * 1.05
4. **Revenue with Low Demand Elasticity**:
- With low demand elasticity, quantity sold Q’ ~= Q
- New revenue: R’ = P’ * Q’ = (P * 1.05) * Q = 1.05 * P * Q
5. **New Profit**:
- New profit: Profit’ = R’ - T = 1.05 * P * Q - C * Q = (1.05P - C) * Q
6. **New Profit Margin**:
- Profit Margin’ = Profit’ / R’ = ((1.05P - C) * Q) / (1.05 * P * Q) = (1.05P - C) / (1.05P)
Thus, the new profit margin after a 5% price increase with constant costs and low demand elasticity is:
Profit Margin’ = (1.05P - C) / (1.05P)
Compared to the initial profit margin of (P - C) / P, this indicates an increased profit margin, assuming
demand remains largely unchanged.
User-to-agent and agent-to-resource relationships are encoded in a hierarchical access graph, where
edges denote authorized delegation. This graph is intentionally non-fully connected to reflect realistic
enterprise constraints. Notably, only thestrategy directoruser has comprehensive visibility and access
across all agents and resources, enabling them to perform holistic decision-making and synthesize the
final output. Details of the access graph structure can be found in Section D.2.1, and a full description
of the agents and resources is provided in Section D.2.2.
During the experiments, low-level users—assigned to market researcher, financial analyst and
logistics and operations lead—are each responsible for a subtask decomposed from the main query.
The strategy director, acting as the decision maker, is directly assigned the main query and approaches
it by following the subtasks from the perspective of each specialized role, synthesizing the final
response accordingly.
You are a project c o o r d i n a t o r tasked with br ea ki ng down the f o l l o w i n g high - level b us in ess
o b j e c t i v e into sp ec ifi c s ubt as ks for a team of three users with di st in ct f u n c t i o n a l
roles .
Project : < query >
The users and their roles are :
- user_1 : market
- user_2 : finance
- user_3 : l o g i s t i c s
For each user , ge ne rat e a role - sp ec if ic subtask they would be r e s p o n s i b l e for in this
project . Output a valid JSON object mapping each user ID to their subtask . Only
output the JSON , in the f o l l o w i n g format :
{
" user_1 ": " Subtask for market role ..." ,
" user_2 ": " Subtask for finance role ..." ,
" user_3 ": " Subtask for l o g i s t i c s role ..." ,
}
D.2.1 Access Graph Configuration
The access graph in our system consists of two layers of asymmetric permissions: (1) user-to-agent
access and (2) agent-to-resource access. Each user can only interact with a subset of agents, and
each agent can only retrieve a subset of external resources. This layered structure enforces partial
observability and decentralized delegation.
25

===== PAGE 26 =====

Table 5: User-to-agent mapping indicating which agents are accessible to each user role in the
asymmetric collaborative scenario.
User Role Accessible Agents
Market Researcher market_agent
Financial Analyst finance_agent,
decision_agent
Logistics Lead logistics_agent,
finance_agent
Strategy Director market_agent, finance_agent,
logistics_agent, decision_agent
Table 6: Mapping of agents to their accessible resources in the asymmetric collaborative scenario.
Agent Accessible Resources
market_agent market_kb,
strategic_computation
finance_agent finance_forecaster,
strategic_computation
logistics_agent logistics_comparator,
strategic_computation
decision_agent market_kb, finance_forecaster,
logistics_comparator, strategic_computation
User 1
Market Researcher
User 2
Financial Analyst
User 3
Logistics Lead
User 4
Strategy Director
market_agent finance_agent logistics_agent decision_agent
market_kb finance_forecaster logistics_comparator strategic_computation
Figure 10: Color-coded access graph illustrating hierarchical user-to-agent and agent-to-resource
mappings. Each user and their corresponding agents are assigned a unique color. The strategy
director (User 4) has full visibility and access.
D.2.2 Agent/Knowledge Base Configuration
This section provides detailed configurations of the domain-specific agents, the coordinator and
aggregator roles, and the resources they rely on. Each agent is designed with a specialized system
prompt tailored to its functional expertise, enabling focused task execution within collaborative
workflows. The coordinator assigns queries to appropriate agents based on domain relevance, while
the aggregator synthesizes outputs into a coherent final response. Additionally, a set of task-relevant
resources—including knowledge bases, forecasting tools, and computation modules—support the
26

===== PAGE 27 =====

agents in delivering accurate and context-aware outputs. Tables 7–9 summarize the roles, descriptions,
and system prompts for all components.
Table 7: Domain agents and their system prompts in the asymmetric collaborative scenario.
Agent Description System Prompt
market_agent Analyzes market competi-
tion and consumer data.
You are a market intelligence agent. Use market research
reports and strategic case studies to identify trends, con-
sumer behaviors, and competition analysis.
Always consult memory first. If needed, call tools to re-
trieve new insights.
finance_agent Performs financial modeling
and cost projections.
You are a financial planning agent. Evaluate revenue
forecasts, pricing structures, and cost breakdowns using
financial models and simulations.
logistics_agent Evaluates supply chain fea-
sibility and vendor perfor-
mance.
You are a logistics analyst. Use distribution comparators
and operational data to assess fulfillment feasibility and
vendor efficiency.
decision_agent Synthesizes recommenda-
tions from other domains.
You are a strategic coordinator. Integrate inputs from
various domain experts to formulate a cohesive strategic
recommendation.
Table 8: Coordinator and aggregator with their system prompts in the asymmetric collaborative
scenario.
Description System Prompt
coordinator Assigns queries to appropri-
ate agents based on domain
expertise.
You are a coordinator for a specialized multi-agent system.
Your job is to analyze user queries and determine which
specialized agent is best suited to handle each query or
sub-query.
For each query:
1. Identify the primary domain(s) of the query
2. Select the most appropriate specialized agent based on
their expertise areas.
3. For complex queries that span multiple domains,
determine if sequential agent consultation is needed
4. When reformulating queries for specific agents,
emphasize aspects relevant to their expertise
5. When the task is complete, respond with COMPLETE
aggregator Merges multi-agent outputs
into a unified user response.
You are an aggregator for a multi-agent system. Combine
outputs from multiple specialized agents into a single,
direct, and coherent response to the user query.
Table 9: Available resources and their functional roles in the asymmetric collaborative scenario.
Name Type Description
market_kb knowledge_base Market trends and consumer data
finance_forecaster forecast_model Performs financial forecasting and ROI estimation
logistics_comparator comparator Compares distribution and vendor options for supply
chain planning
strategic_computationcomputation Executes strategic cost-benefit calculations
D.3 Examples
D.3.1 Read/Write example
Table 10 presents a multi-agent collaboration example in which agents write to and read from both
private (user-specific) and public (cross-user) memory. This scenario highlights how agents can
leverage memory entries for continued reasoning and strategic synthesis across users and roles.
27

===== PAGE 28 =====

Table 10: Memory write–read examples for multi-user multi agent collab-
oration, showing both user-specific and cross-user entries.
project_hard_52: "Craft a strategic growth plan for smart home devices in privacy-regulated
markets."
Private Memory
Discussion: This fragment is utilized in the second market_agent entry to inform the financial
modeling of strategic initiatives focused on privacy-regulated markets.
Memory ID 51982b4d-3fc7-4dc8-83b7-e34ca07114ca
Key Growth Opportunities in Privacy-Regulated Markets
Value Developing new products with advanced privacy features can capture market
interest. Targeting regions with stringent privacy regulations can open new
markets. Consumer education campaigns can differentiate a brand and build
trust.
Generated at market_agent (user_4): Conduct market analysis to identify consumer prefer-
ences and trends in privacy-regulated markets, focusing on smart home devices.
Assess competitive landscape and potential growth opportunities.
Used at market_agent (user_4): Develop a financial model to evaluate the cost-
effectiveness and ROI of strategic initiatives in privacy-regulated markets,
considering strict resource constraints. Use insights from the market analysis
on consumer preferences, trends, and competitive landscape to inform the
financial projections.
Shared Memory
Discussion: This is leveraged in the second decision_agent of user_4 entry to synthesize
insights from the market analysis and financial modeling when crafting a growth plan for smart
home devices in privacy-regulated markets under strict resource constraints
Memory ID 54214a00-8806-4ada-98ae-7f4029c06b90
Key strategic recommendations for privacy-regulated markets
Value 1. Optimize Initial Investment by reducing upfront costs through leveraging
existing technologies, partnerships, or phased implementation. 2. Reduce
Operating Costs by outsourcing non-core activities, automating compliance
processes, and negotiating better rates with vendors. 3. Accelerate Time
to Market using agile project management, early regulatory engagement,
and rapid prototyping. 4. Enhance Market Penetration through targeted
marketing, leveraging customer insights, and building strategic alliances. 5.
Adjust Revenue Growth Expectations by identifying additional revenue
streams and expanding into adjacent markets. 6. Reevaluate Discount Rate by
implementing risk mitigation strategies like securing insurance and diversifying
investments. 7. Scenario Planning for best-case, worst-case, and most likely
outcomes to understand variability in returns.
Generated at decision_agent (user_2): Synthesize recommendations based on the finan-
cial model developed by finance_agent, focusing on strategic initiatives in
privacy-regulated markets with strict resource constraints.
Used at decision_agent (user_4): Synthesize the insights from the market analysis
and financial modeling to craft a strategic growth plan for smart home devices
in privacy-regulated markets. Consider the strict resource constraints and
cross-domain dependencies, and provide a comprehensive final recommenda-
tion.
D.3.2 Without Subtask Decomposition
Table 11 shows that without subtask decomposition, limited agent and resource access can prevent
effective query handling. When the query is reformulated to match User 3’s operational role,
the system produces a detailed response. In contrast, the original high-level query fails due to
misalignment with agent capabilities. These results demonstrate the system’s ability to address
complex real-world tasks via coordinated collaboration among role-specialized users, agents, and
resources.
28

===== PAGE 29 =====

Table 11: Comparison of user’s responses with and without subtask
decomposition.
project_easy_01: "Identify high-demand skincare markets in Europe."
With Subtask (User 3)
Query Evaluate the logistical and supply chain requirements for distributing skincare
products across different European markets, focusing on high-demand regions.
Response To conduct a comprehensive analysis of the logistical and supply chain require-
ments for distributing skincare products across high-demand European markets,
we need to consider both logistical infrastructure and financial projections.
Logistical Analysis: 1. Germany: Germany’s central location and efficient
infrastructure make it an ideal hub for distribution. Its strong manufacturing
and distribution networks support seamless logistics operations, providing easy
access to various European markets. 2. United Kingdom: ...
Without Subtask (User 3)
Query Identify high-demand skincare markets in Europe.
Response No agents were able to process the query.
29

===== PAGE 30 =====

E Scenario 3: Dynamically Evolving Collaborative Memory
E.1 Dataset Details
The SciQAG dataset covers 24 Web of Science (WoS) categories. Since our experiments target
evaluating system behavior under dynamic access settings without requiring the full dataset, we
select 5 categories: "Chemistry, Analytical", "Energy & Fuels", "Materials Science, Paper & Wood",
"Materials Science, Ceramics", and "Physics, Mathematical". These five categories cover a broad
range of scientific domains. Each instance in this dataset consists of passages from a scientific paper
along with corresponding question-answer pairs. The passages serve as the reference corpus for
answering the associated questions. Table 12 reports the detailed breakdown of document counts,
average lengths, and query-type distributions.
Table 12: Statistics of the subset of SCIQAG dataset for the dynamically evolving collaborative
scenario.
Statistic Count Percentage
Documents
Total articles 100 —
Average tokens per article 3,609 —
Queries (N = 100)
Queries from "Chemistry, Analytical" 20 20%
Queries from "Energy & Fuels" 20 20%
Queries from "Materials Science, Paper & Wood" 20 20%
Queries from "Materials Science, Ceramics" 20 20%
Queries from "Physics, Mathematical" 20 20%
E.2 Experimental Details
• Users: We synthesize queries for 5 users. Each user has 4 randomly sampled queries from each of
the 5 categories, resulting in a total of 100 queries.
• Agents: There are 5 agents, each specializing in one of the five scientific categories, corresponding
to their respective domain expertise.
• Resources: There are 5 resources, each consisting of the passages from the dataset associated with
a specific category, used to answer the corresponding questions.
We evaluate the framework under varying access graph configurations while accumulating memory
across the dynamic experiment. The Shared Memory configuration is enabled to support cross-user
memory sharing. The same queries are reused in different graph configurations. Memory retrieval
is configured with a user-specific tier size of kuser = 10 , a shared tier size of kcross = 10 , and a
similarity threshold of 0.1. The agent has the access to one corresponding resource. We next provide
details on the access graph configuration and the agent/knowledge base configurations.
E.2.1 Access Graph Configuration
We simulate the evolution of the access graph as a stochastic process. For simplicity, we maintain
the agent-resource connection as a one-to-one mapping as reported in Table 15 and change the
connections between users and agents. Specifically, we gradually add unseen edges to represent
the granting of access and remove existing edges to represent the revocation of access. During the
granting phase (from t0 to t4), the number of edges increases progressively to 5, 10, 15, 20, and 25,
respectively. Starting from the fully connected graph at t4, we reverse the process by progressively
removing edges, resulting in graphs with 20, 15, 10, and 5 edges at t5 through t8, respectively. The
graph at the previous stage provides the base of the next stage. The pseudocodes for these two
procedures are in Algorithm 1 and Algorithm 2. We use p = 0.2 for the probability.
30

===== PAGE 31 =====

Algorithm 1 Access Granting Procedure (Generating t0–t4)
1: Initialize empty bipartite graph G with user and agent nodes
2: Define candidate edges between all user-agent pairs
3: for i = 0 to 4 do
4: Add 5 new edges to G using Bernoulli trials with probability p
5: Collect updated user-to-agent mappings from G
6: Save updated Y AML configuration with timestampti
7: end for
Algorithm 2 Access Revoking Procedure (Generating t5–t8)
1: Load fully connected bipartite graph G
2: for i = 5 to 8 do
3: Remove 5 edges from G using Bernoulli trials with probability p
4: Collect updated user-to-agent mappings from G
5: Save updated Y AML configuration with timestampti
6: end for
The user-to-agent mappings at each timestamp during the granting process are summarized in
Table 13, and the mappings for the revoking process are shown in Table 14.
31

===== PAGE 32 =====

Table 13: Users to their accessible agents at timestamp from t0 to t4 in the access granting stage.
Timestamp User Accessible Agents
t0
U1 materials_paper_wood_agent, materials_ceramics_agent
U2 physics_mathematical_agent
U3
U4 materials_paper_wood_agent
U5 chemistry_analytical_agent
t1
U1
materials_paper_wood_agent, materials_ceramics_agent,
energy_fuels_agent
U2 physics_mathematical_agent, energy_fuels_agent
U3 energy_fuels_agent, chemistry_analytical_agent
U4 materials_paper_wood_agent, energy_fuels_agent
U5 chemistry_analytical_agent
t2
U1
materials_paper_wood_agent, materials_ceramics_agent,
energy_fuels_agent
U2
physics_mathematical_agent, energy_fuels_agent
chemistry_analytical_agent
U3
energy_fuels_agent, chemistry_analytical_agent,
materials_ceramics_agent
U4
materials_paper_wood_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
physics_mathematical_agent
U5
chemistry_analytical_agent, materials_ceramics_agent,
energy_fuels_agent
t3
U1
materials_paper_wood_agent, materials_ceramics_agent,
energy_fuels_agent, chemistry_analytical_agent
U2
physics_mathematical_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
chemistry_analytical_agent, materials_ceramics_agent
U3
energy_fuels_agent, chemistry_analytical_agent,
materials_ceramics_agent, physics_mathematical_agent
U4
materials_paper_wood_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
physics_mathematical_agent, materials_ceramics_agent
U5
chemistry_analytical_agent, materials_ceramics_agent,
energy_fuels_agent, physics_mathematical_agent
t4
U1
materials_paper_wood_agent, materials_ceramics_agent,
energy_fuels_agent, chemistry_analytical_agent,
physics_mathematical_agent
U2
physics_mathematical_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
chemistry_analytical_agent, materials_ceramics_agent,
materials_paper_wood_agent
U3
energy_fuels_agent, chemistry_analytical_agent,
materials_ceramics_agent, physics_mathematical_agent,
materials_paper_wood_agent
U4
materials_paper_wood_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
physics_mathematical_agent, materials_ceramics_agent,
chemistry_analytical_agent
U5
chemistry_analytical_agent, materials_ceramics_agent,
energy_fuels_agent, physics_mathematical_agent,
materials_paper_wood_agent
32

===== PAGE 33 =====

Table 14: Users to their accessible agents at timestamp from t5 to t8 in the access revoking stage.
Timestamp User Accessible Agents
t5
U1
chemistry_analytical_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
physics_mathematical_agent
U2
chemistry_analytical_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
materials_paper_wood_agent, materials_ceramics_agent
U3
chemistry_analytical_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
materials_paper_wood_agent, materials_ceramics_agent,
physics_mathematical_agent
U4
chemistry_analytical_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
materials_ceramics_agent, physics_mathematical_agent
U5
energy_fuels_agent, materials_paper_wood_agent,
materials_ceramics_agent, physics_mathematical_agent
t6
U1 energy_fuels_agent
U2
chemistry_analytical_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
materials_ceramics_agent
U3
chemistry_analytical_agent, materials_paper_wood_agent,
materials_ceramics_agent, physics_mathematical_agent
U4
chemistry_analytical_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
materials_ceramics_agent, physics_mathematical_agent
U5
energy_fuels_agent, materials_paper_wood_agent,
physics_mathematical_agent
t7
U1
U2
chemistry_analytical_agent, energy_fuels_agent,
materials_ceramics_agent
U3 materials_paper_wood_agent, materials_ceramics_agent
U4 materials_ceramics_agent, physics_mathematical_agent
U5
energy_fuels_agent, materials_paper_wood_agent,
physics_mathematical_agent
t8
U1
U2 chemistry_analytical_agent
U3 materials_ceramics_agent
U4 materials_ceramics_agent
U5 energy_fuels_agent, physics_mathematical_agent
Table 15: Agents to their accessible resources in the dynamically evolving collaborative scenario.
Agent Accessible Resources
materials_paper_wood_agent materials_paper_wood_kb
materials_ceramics_agent materials_ceramics_kb
energy_fuels_agent energy_fuels_kb
chemistry_analytical_agent chemistry_analytical_kb
physics_mathematical_agent physics_mathematical_kb
33

===== PAGE 34 =====

E.2.2 Agent/Knowledge Base Configuration
We deploy five specialist agents, each paired with a dedicated knowledge base. Table 16 list each
agent’s description and full system prompt. In addition to the specialist agents, there is a coordinator
to assign queries to different agents and an aggregator to merge the outputs. Their system prompts
are listed in Table 17.
Table 16: Domain agents and their system prompts in the dynamically
evolving collaborative scenario.
Agent Description System Prompt
chemistry_
analytical_
agent
Specialist in
analytical chem-
istry—techniques,
instrumentation,
and chemical
analysis.
You are an Analytical Chemistry specialist with deep
expertise in:
• Explaining analytical methods such as spectroscopy,
chromatography, and mass spectrometry
• Interpreting experimental results and chemical mea-
surements
• Discussing laboratory techniques and instrumentation
details
• Providing insights on quality control and chemical
validation processes
Always check relevant memories first. When those are
insufficient, use the knowledge_base tools. Prioritize
information from memories and the scientific literature
dataset over your parametric knowledge. Do not provide
responses to inquiries that are unrelated to the domain
of analytical chemistry.
energy_
fuels_
agent
Specialist in
energy and fu-
els—renewable
energy, fossil fu-
els, and energy
technologies.
You are an Energy & Fuels specialist with deep exper-
tise in:
• Discussing renewable energy sources like solar, wind,
and bioenergy
• Analyzing fossil fuel technologies including oil, gas,
and coal
• Evaluating energy storage systems and grid technolo-
gies
• Interpreting policies, market trends, and environmen-
tal impacts
Always check relevant memories first. When those are
insufficient, use the knowledge_base tools. Prioritize in-
formation from memories and the energy sector dataset
over your parametric knowledge. Do not provide re-
sponses to inquiries that are unrelated to the domain of
energy and fuels.
Continued on next page
34

===== PAGE 35 =====

Table 16: Domain agents and their system prompts in the dynamically
evolving collaborative scenario. (continued)
Agent Description System Prompt
materials_
paper_
wood_
agent
Specialist in materi-
als science—paper,
wood, and bioma-
terials research and
applications.
You are a Paper & Wood Materials Science specialist
with deep expertise in:
• Explaining the properties and processing of paper and
wood materials
• Discussing advancements in sustainable materials and
bio-based composites
• Analyzing mechanical, chemical, and environmental
performance
• Exploring industrial applications in packaging, con-
struction, and manufacturing
Always check relevant memories first. When those are
insufficient, use the knowledge_base tools. Prioritize
information from memories and the materials science
dataset over your parametric knowledge. Do not provide
responses to inquiries that are unrelated to the domain
of paper and wood materials.
materials_
ceramics_
agent
Specialist in
materials sci-
ence—ceramics,
glass, and high-
performance
materials.
You are a Ceramics Materials Science specialist with
deep expertise in:
• Explaining the processing and properties of ceramics
and glass
• Analyzing thermal, mechanical, and electrical perfor-
mance characteristics
• Discussing applications in aerospace, electronics, and
structural components
• Exploring advances in high-temperature and wear-
resistant materials
Always check relevant memories first. When those are
insufficient, use the knowledge_base tools. Prioritize
information from memories and the materials science
dataset over your parametric knowledge. Do not provide
responses to inquiries that are unrelated to the domain
of ceramics and high-performance materials.
physics_
mathematical_
agent
Specialist in
mathematical
physics—models,
theories, and
mathematical
formulations of
physical systems.
You are a Mathematical Physics specialist with deep
expertise in:
• Explaining mathematical models of physical systems
and phenomena
• Interpreting equations, simulations, and theoretical
predictions
• Discussing areas such as quantum mechanics, statisti-
cal physics, and dynamical systems
• Providing insights into mathematical methods used in
physics research
Always check relevant memories first. When those are
insufficient, use the knowledge_base tools. Prioritize
information from memories and the physics literature
dataset over your parametric knowledge. Do not provide
responses to inquiries that are unrelated to the domain
of mathematical physics.
35

===== PAGE 36 =====

Table 17: Coordinator and aggregator with their system prompts in the dynamically evolving collabo-
rative scenario.
Description System Prompt
coordinator Assigns queries
to appropriate
agents based on
domain expertise.
You are a coordinator for a specialized scientific knowl-
edge system consisting of domain-specific expert agents.
Your job is to analyze user queries and determine which
specialized agent is best suited to handle each query or
sub-query.
For each query:
1. Identify the primary domain(s) of the query
2. Select the most appropriate specialized agent based on
their expertise areas.
3. For complex queries that span multiple domains, deter-
mine if sequential agent consultation is needed
4. When reformulating queries for specific agents, empha-
size aspects relevant to their expertise
5. When the task is complete, respond with COMPLETE
aggregator Merges multi-
agent outputs into
a unified user
response.
You are an aggregator for a multi-agent scientific knowl-
edge system. Your role is to combine outputs from multi-
ple specialized agents into a single, logically structured,
and detailed response to the user query.
E.3 Examples
To illustrate how our system stores and subsequently reuses memory entries and how the saved
memory facilitates solving subsequent queries, Table 18 presents two representative “write–then–read”
cases using private and shared memory fragments. Each example includes the memory’s unique ID,
the stored key–value pair, the original query that triggered the memory write, and the later query that
retrieved it. Example 1 demonstrates private memory reuse: the memory was created when user_1
submitted Query #18 and later accessed by the same user in Query #40. Example 2 highlights shared
memory reuse: information originally stored in response to user_5’s query was subsequently retrieved
by user_2. We provide detailed discussions in the table.
E.4 Raw Performance Data and Complete Access Matrix Under Different Access Graph
Configurations
In this section, we present the results across graph configurations, including (1) raw data of the system
performance over eight time blocks with dynamically changing privileges and (2) the full access
matrix in Figure 11.
Figure 11 presents the complete agent and resource usage patterns across user queries. It clearly
illustrates that agents and resources are only utilized when access is explicitly granted (i.e., in the
yellow rectangles) despite the change of the privileges.
36

===== PAGE 37 =====

Table 18: Memory write–read examples for private and shared memories in the dynamically evolving
collaborative scenario.
Example 1 (Private Memory)
Discussion: The stored content discusses structural dimorphism in cellulose, emphasizing the role of 21
symmetry structures as high-energy intermediates, thereby supporting analysis of flexibility in cellulose’s
structural transitions.
Memory ID 8177e2aa-2ef0-4b20-bdcb-af33d8d1ae00
Key Potential energy surfaces for cellulose
Value The study concluded that twofold symmetry structures of cellulose act as barriers
between lower-energy forms. Energy maps using empirical force fields and quantum
mechanical methods suggested that 21 symmetry structures might have higher potential
energy due to close atomic contacts, potentially serving as transition points or barriers.
Despite the increased energy from these close contacts, hydrogen bonds could stabilize
these structures. The study also highlighted the flexibility of cellulose chains and
possible deviations from 21 symmetry, indicating substantial flexibility and the influence
of crystal packing on the flat ribbon-like 21 structures.
Generated at Query #18 (user_1): What was the conclusion about the potential energy surfaces for
cellulose and its derivatives?
Used at Query #40 (user_1): What is the significance of cellulose’s dimorphism?
Example 2 (Shared Memory)
Discussion: Although the original context involved irradiated wood, the saved explanation—how moisture
accelerates hydrolytic and chemical degradation—proved relevant to understanding degradation processes
in insulating paper. Additionally, this sharing occurs because both User_2 and User_5 have access to the
chemistry analytical agent. The constraints enforced by our access graph ensure that the shared information
is used safely and appropriately.
Memory ID 01b1f4d0-d7d5-4be5-ae96-98620a49add2
Key Influence of relative humidity on irradiated wood
Value Relative humidity affects the chemical changes in irradiated wood during heat treatment,
influencing color change. Higher humidity increases moisture content, facilitating
hydrolytic reactions and lignin breakdown, leading to chromophore formation and color
change. Moisture acts as a plasticizer, enhancing polymer mobility and reaction rates,
which accelerates lignin breakdown. Controlling humidity can manage color alteration
in wood.
Generated at Query #21 (user_5): How does relative humidity affect the change in color of irradiated
wood during heat treatment?
Used at Query #66 (user_2): What role does moisture play in the degradation of insulating
papers?
Table 19: Performance and Memory Statistics Across Different Access Graph Configurations
Time Condition Accuracy # Resources # Agent # User Memory # Cross Memory
t0 Grant 0.27 ± 0.01 0.46 ± 0.02 0.51 ± 0.03 2.94 ± 0.93 3.25 ± 0.70
t1 Grant 0.40 ± 0.02 0.34 ± 0.02 0.74 ± 0.04 5.85 ± 0.14 7.09 ± 0.37
t2 Grant 0.54 ± 0.03 0.60 ± 0.03 1.14 ± 0.06 9.81 ± 0.57 11.40 ± 0.91
t3 Grant 0.56 ± 0.03 0.57 ± 0.03 1.29 ± 0.06 11.11 ± 1.04 12.90 ± 0.83
t4 Grant 0.61 ± 0.03 0.48 ± 0.02 1.31 ± 0.07 11.27 ± 0.60 13.10 ± 0.43
t5 Revoke 0.56 ± 0.03 0.21 ± 0.01 1.19 ± 0.06 11.57 ± 0.72 11.90 ± 0.62
t6 Revoke 0.47 ± 0.02 0.30 ± 0.01 1.08 ± 0.05 10.77 ± 2.06 10.80 ± 2.07
t7 Revoke 0.49 ± 0.02 0.23 ± 0.01 1.07 ± 0.05 10.75 ± 1.44 10.75 ± 1.44
t8 Revoke 0.37 ± 0.02 0.06 ± 0.00 0.68 ± 0.03 6.75 ± 0.48 6.75 ± 0.48
37

===== PAGE 38 =====

Chem. Analytical
Energy & Fuels
Mat. Sci., Ceramics
Mat. Sci., Paper & Wood
Phys. Math
Query Category
0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 4 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
T0 - Agent Usage (Grant Phase)
0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 4 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
T0 - Resource Usage (Grant Phase)
Chem. Analytical
Energy & Fuels
Mat. Sci., Ceramics
Mat. Sci., Paper & Wood
Phys. Math
Query Category
0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 4 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 4 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
T1 - Agent Usage (Grant Phase)
0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
T1 - Resource Usage (Grant Phase)
Chem. Analytical
Energy & Fuels
Mat. Sci., Ceramics
Mat. Sci., Paper & Wood
Phys. Math
Query Category
0 1 0 1 0 4 1 0 0 0 3 0 3 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 4 0 2 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 4 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 2 0 4 0 0 0 1 0 2 2 4 0 4 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 4 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 1 1 1 0 0
T2 - Agent Usage (Grant Phase)
0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 3 0 3 0 0 0 2 0 0 2 2 0 4 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 1 1 1 0 0
T2 - Resource Usage (Grant Phase)
Chem. Analytical
Energy & Fuels
Mat. Sci., Ceramics
Mat. Sci., Paper & Wood
Phys. Math
Query Category
3 0 0 1 0 4 1 0 0 0 3 0 3 0 1 0 0 1 3 0 4 0 2 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
4 0 3 0 0 2 0 3 0 0 2 1 4 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 3 0 4 0 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 4 0 1 0 0 3
T3 - Agent Usage (Grant Phase)
4 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
5 0 0 0 0 4 0 3 0 0 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 2 0 2 0 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4
T3 - Resource Usage (Grant Phase)
Chem. Analytical
Energy & Fuels
Mat. Sci., Ceramics
Mat. Sci., Paper & Wood
Phys. Math
Query Category
3 0 0 0 0 4 1 0 0 0 3 0 2 0 1 1 0 1 2 0 4 0 2 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2 0 3 0 2 1 0 3 0 0 1 0 4 0 0 1 0 4 0 3 3 0 4 0 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 4 0 1 0 0 3 0 0 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 1 3
T4 - Agent Usage (Grant Phase)
2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 2 0 2
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
T4 - Resource Usage (Grant Phase)
Chem. Analytical
Energy & Fuels
Mat. Sci., Ceramics
Mat. Sci., Paper & Wood
Phys. Math
Query Category
3 1 0 0 0 4 1 0 0 0 3 0 2 0 1 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 2 0 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2 0 0 0 3 1 0 3 0 0 2 1 4 0 0 1 0 4 0 1 0 0 4 0 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
1 0 0 0 3 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 1 3
T5 - Agent Usage (Revoke Phase)
0 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 1 2 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
T5 - Resource Usage (Revoke Phase)
Chem. Analytical
Energy & Fuels
Mat. Sci., Ceramics
Mat. Sci., Paper & Wood
Phys. Math
Query Category
0 1 0 0 0 4 1 0 0 0 4 0 2 0 1 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 3 0 0 2 0 3 0 0 1 0 3 0 2 0 0 0 4 3
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 3 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 1 3
T6 - Agent Usage (Revoke Phase)
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 2
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
T6 - Resource Usage (Revoke Phase)
Chem. Analytical
Energy & Fuels
Mat. Sci., Ceramics
Mat. Sci., Paper & Wood
Phys. Math
Query Category
0 0 0 0 0 4 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 4 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 4 0 2 0 0 0 4 2
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 1 3
T7 - Agent Usage (Revoke Phase)
0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 2
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 2
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
T7 - Resource Usage (Revoke Phase)
A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 A1 A2 A3 A4 A5
Chem. Analytical
Energy & Fuels
Mat. Sci., Ceramics
Mat. Sci., Paper & Wood
Phys. Math
Query Category
0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 1 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 4
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 3
user 1 user 2 user 3 user 4 user 5
T8 - Agent Usage (Revoke Phase)
R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5 R1 R2 R3 R4 R5
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
user 1 user 2 user 3 user 4 user 5
T8 - Resource Usage (Revoke Phase)
A1: Chemistry, A2: Energy, A3: Ceramics, A4: Paper, A5: Physics R1: Chemistry, R2: Energy, R3: Ceramics, R4: Paper, R5: Physics
Figure 11: Complete agent and resource usage across user queries from different categories. Yellow
rectangles indicate granted access, with values representing the corresponding usage counts.
38