

===== PAGE 1 =====

LatticeMind: A Conflict-Aware Memory Primitive for Multi-Agent Systems
Heng Zhou1* Lian Zhang2* Yutao Fan3* Tiancheng He4
Siki Chen5 Hejia Geng5 Philip Torr5 Zhenfei Yin5
1University of Science and Technology of China 2University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
3Shanghai AI Laboratory 4Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications 5University of Oxford
Abstract
Multi-agent LLM systems often fail not for
lack of candidate answers, but because they
have no persistent mechanism for deciding
which incompatible claim should currently be
trusted. Majority vote, debate, and judge-based
selection choose an output without recording
which claim wins, which is contested, or why
a later update supersedes it. We present LAT-
TICEMIND, a conflict-aware structured mem-
ory that handles contradiction at write time. It
maintains explicit item status, applies cheap
symbolic conflict checks, and invokes LLM
reconciliation only for unresolved semantic
cases. On a label-blind ConflictBank evalu-
ation that removes source-name hints, Lattice-
Mind reaches 0.97 accuracy versus 0.61 for the
strongest aggregation baseline, with the gap sig-
nificant at p<10 −6 by paired McNemar test.
Ablations show that removing the checker or
the reconciler costs 12 to 14 points. On four
secondary planning benchmarks the picture is
mixed: LatticeMind beats naive merge on three
of four, but does not replace deliberation meth-
ods on tasks rewarding iterative search.
1 Introduction
Consider a multi-agent system answering a ques-
tion about an updated approval policy. Agent A
reads the authoritative policy document and writes
the new version. Agent B has only seen an outdated
note and asserts the legacy policy. Agent C cites
a recent third-party report whose recency is mis-
leading. Standard aggregation strategies, includ-
ing majority vote (Wang et al., 2023), debate (Du
et al., 2024), and judge-based selection (Zheng
et al., 2023), decide what to output, but they leave
no trace of which claim won, which one was con-
tested, or why. The next time a similar question
arrives, the same conflict has to be relitigated from
scratch. This is the failure mode we target: not a
* Equal contribution.
shortage of context, but the absence of a persistent
mechanism for managing disagreement over time.
We argue that the missing primitive is conflict-
aware memory. Existing agent-memory architec-
tures (Packer et al., 2023; Sumers et al., 2024; Park
et al., 2023) cover retrieval, compression, and re-
flection, but none treats contradiction handling as
a first-class memory update operation. Free-form
summarization can produce coherent prose while
erasing why a fact is trusted or which older claim it
replaced; raw concatenation keeps everything but
provides no suppression mechanism. A recent sur-
vey organizes agent memory by form, function, and
temporal dynamics (Hu et al., 2025b), yet none of
its axes treatsconflict statusas a first-class property:
which claim currently wins, which is contested, and
which is superseded. Combined with the rise of
knowledge conflicts as a core LLM challenge (Xu
et al., 2024), this motivates an explicit conflict-
handling primitive. The same problem reappears
in long-horizon software projects, where reposito-
ries evolve and different scopes such as production,
staging, and feature branches temporarily disagree
about the current state.
We therefore study a narrow question. Should
contradiction handling in multi-agent systems be
treated as a memory problem rather than an answer-
selection problem? Our answer is LATTICEMIND,
a structured memory framework with explicit item
status, symbolic conflict checks, and selective LLM
reconciliation. Cheap symbolic checks detect me-
chanical conflicts such as dependency cycles or
resource violations. The reconciler is invoked only
when needed, and it classifies each remaining con-
flict as a credibility decision, where one claim
should defeat another, or as a coordination deci-
sion, where multiple locally valid proposals must
coexist while planning is revised. Our empirical
evaluation focuses on the credibility regime; coor-
dination handling is present as a conservative safety
override rather than as a validated claim.
1
arXiv:2608.08236v1  [cs.AI]  8 Aug 2026

===== PAGE 2 =====

We structure the paper around one main claim
and one application study. On ConflictBank (Su
et al., 2024), evaluated under a label-blind protocol
that anonymizes source names to Source A/B/C and
removes any trust hint, LatticeMind reaches 0.97
accuracy versus 0.63 for single-agent inference and
0.61 for the strongest aggregation baseline, with
every gap significant at p<10 −6 by paired Mc-
Nemar test. Secondary planning results are de-
liberately mixed, mapping where conflict-aware
memory helps. The application study then shows
the same update rules transfer to long-horizon
software-state tracking, with a learned-operator
study localizing the remaining gap to extraction
rather than to conflict resolution.
Our contributions are fourfold:
⋄ We identify contradiction handling as a missing
primitive in multi-agent systems and formulate
it as a structured memory update problem rather
than an answer-aggregation problem.
⋄ We introduce LATTICEMIND, which com-
bines explicit status tracking, symbolic conflict
checks, and selective LLM reconciliation in a
single update loop.
⋄ We report strong ConflictBank gains with statis-
tical tests and a single-pass ablation that isolates
the complementary roles of the checker and the
reconciler.
⋄ We instantiate the same rules for software-state
tracking and a learned-operator study that local-
izes the remaining gap to extraction rather than
to conflict resolution.
2 Related Work
2.1 Memory Systems and Benchmarks
Memory has become a central concern for LLM-
based agents. The recent survey by Hu et al.
(2025b) organizes the field along three axes: mem-
ory form (token-level, parametric, latent), func-
tion (factual, experiential, working), and temporal
dynamics. It explicitly separates agent memory
from LLM memory, retrieval-augmented genera-
tion (Lewis et al., 2020), and context engineering.
None of its functional categories, however, repre-
sents or resolves contradictory claims over time,
which is the gap LatticeMind targets. Earlier ar-
chitectures explore different points in this space:
MemGPT (Packer et al., 2023) treats the LLM as an
OS with explicit paging; Generative Agents (Park
et al., 2023) maintain a memory stream of observa-
tions and reflections; Reflexion (Shinn et al., 2023)
uses verbal self-reflection; and CoALA (Sumers
et al., 2024) unifies working, episodic, seman-
tic, and procedural stores. More recent token-
level systems extend this store: Mem0 (Chhikara
et al., 2025) consolidates salient facts, A-MEM (Xu
et al., 2025) self-organizes notes into a linked
graph, and HippoRAG (Gutiérrez et al., 2024) in-
dexes memory through a knowledge graph, while
a parametric line edits facts directly into model
weights (Meng et al., 2022). Three recent sys-
tems are closest to ours. Zep (Rasmussen et al.,
2025) stores memory as a temporal knowledge
graph but exposes no explicit per-item status (pro-
posed, contested, superseded); supersession is im-
plicit in the temporal index. MIRIX (Wang and
Chen, 2025) composes multi-agent memory at the
retrieval-and-summarization layer rather than at a
shared write target with conflict resolution. Faith-
fulRAG (Zhang et al., 2025) resolves fact-level
conflicts just before generation rather than persist-
ing the resolution for later agents. LatticeMind
instead makes conflict resolution a write-time oper-
ation on shared memory with explicit item status,
so the next reader sees a resolved state rather than
relitigating the conflict.
Recent memory benchmarks improve evaluation
but mostly target conversational or single-agent set-
tings. LoCoMo (Maharana et al., 2024) and Long-
MemEval (Wu et al., 2025) cover chat memory,
MemBench (Tan et al., 2025) covers factual and
reflective memory, MemoryAgentBench (Hu et al.,
2025a) measures incremental multi-turn memory
in agents, and ConflictBank (Su et al., 2024) tar-
gets knowledge conflicts. The companion survey
of Xu et al. (2024) taxonomizes context-memory,
inter-context, and intra-memory conflicts. A par-
allel line builds benchmarks over knowledge that
changes underneath the model, so that yesterday’s
correct answer becomes today’s stale one (Zhou
et al., 2026b); this shares our concern with super-
session but measures retrieval against a moving
corpus rather than the memory update itself. None
of these benchmarks isolates the multi-agent set-
ting where memory must decide which of several
incompatible facts to trust, under what scope, and
with what provenance.
2.2 Multi-Agent and Long-Horizon Software
Settings
Multi-agent LLM frameworks built on ReAct (Yao
et al., 2023) have grown rapidly. Auto-
2

===== PAGE 3 =====

Gen (Wu et al., 2023), CAMEL (Li et al., 2023),
MetaGPT (Hong et al., 2024), and ChatDev (Qian
et al., 2024) focus on task decomposition, role
assignment, and communication protocols, leav-
ing disagreement handling to downstream aggre-
gation or human oversight (Guo et al., 2024; Xi
et al., 2023). Later work makes the organization
itself adaptive, either by letting a reward signal re-
shape the agent topology (Zhou et al., 2025) or by
training the policy that drives the agents (Zhang
et al., 2026); both optimize how work is assigned
rather than how conflicting results are reconciled
once they are written. Long-horizon software
benchmarks such as SWE-bench (Jimenez et al.,
2024) and LongCLI-Bench (Feng et al., 2026)
measure end-to-end implementation under realistic
execution constraints, and recent agent systems
such as SWE-agent (Yang et al., 2024), Agent-
less (Xia et al., 2024), and OpenHands (Wang et al.,
2024) target patch generation directly. Our goal is
complementary. Rather than benchmarking patch
generation or bug fixing, we isolate the memory
subproblem that precedes those tasks, maintain-
ing a consistent and queryable view of evolving
project state over long trajectories, with software-
specific slots, provenance-aware queries, scope-
sensitive retrieval, and budgeted downstream arti-
facts. We therefore do not compare against SWE-
agent, Agentless, or OpenHands directly, since
their target task is end-to-end issue resolution rather
than auditable state maintenance.
2.3 Aggregation Versus Persistent Memory
Many LLM systems handle multiple sources via
answer-level aggregation: majority vote (Wang
et al., 2023), multi-agent debate (Du et al., 2024),
or judge-based selection (Zheng et al., 2023). We
compare against these directly. They operate over
answers rather than an auditable persistent mem-
ory with explicit item status, scope, and super-
session. The analogy to conflict-free replicated
data types (Shapiro et al., 2011) is intentional: as
CRDTs maintain eventual consistency through al-
gebraic merge rules, LatticeMind maintains a con-
sistent memory view through explicit status transi-
tions and conflict-aware update policies.
3 Method
3.1 Problem Formulation
We consider long-horizon multi-agent settings in
which a system observes a sequence of information
updates S= (S 1, . . . ,ST ). An update may come
from another agent, a note, or a tool result. The
core difficulty is that updates may contradict each
other, differ in authority, or imply incompatible ac-
tions. The goal is therefore to maintain a memory
MT that remains auditable and queryable despite
contradiction, supersession, and coordination fail-
ure.
We model each memory item as m=
(k,c,ρ,τ,η) , where k is a key or routing handle, c
is the content, ρ is evidence metadata, τ is a times-
tamp, and η is a status drawn from {PROPOSED,
CONFIRMED, CONTESTED, SUPERSEDED}. The
memory problem is to update these items so that
currently trusted facts become easy to retrieve,
weaker or incompatible claims are not silently lost,
and important transitions remain inspectable.
Running example.Consider three agents updat-
ing a project’s approval policy. Agent A reads the
authoritative policy document and writes that ap-
provals should follow a new path. Agent B trusts
an outdated note and writes that the legacy path is
still active. Agent C proposes a Tuesday rollout
that overlaps an already accepted deployment win-
dow. A summary-only system would flatten these
into a single answer immediately. LatticeMind in-
stead stores each finding as a separate item, routes
the two policy claims into a credibility compari-
son, flags the rollout overlap through the symbolic
checker, and preserves the losing or blocked items
as contested rather than deleting them.
3.2 Proposed Approach
LatticeMind has three ingredients: structured
writes, conflict-aware update rules, and rendered
views for downstream use. Figure 1 sketches the
loop, and Algorithm 1 states it precisely.
Structured writes.Agents produce findings such
as FACT, CONSTRAINT, and SUB_PLAN; these are
written as explicit memory entries rather than im-
mediately flattened into a final answer. For the
software-state application study, we additionally
extract normalized state claims of the form z=
(u,σ,v,β,ε,ρ,τ) , where u is an entity, σ is a slot,
v is the slot value, β is branch scope, ε is environ-
ment, ρ is evidence metadata, and τ is timestamp.
The canonical key for a state claim is
k(z) = (u,σ,β,ε).(1)
This keying lets the application-specific memory
3

===== PAGE 4 =====

LatticeMind: Conflict-Resolver for Persistent Memory
Resolve disagreement as memory updates, not one-shot answer selection.
structured write → check conflicts→ reconcile if needed → update status→ render→ persist
Approval policy update: A authoritative policy → new path B stale note → legacy path C rollout Tue 34 overlaps accepted window
Structured Writes
incoming writes at time t
Rendered Memory View
externalized for downstream agents
write status update
render
consume
Agent A
Source: Policy Doc
Claim: new approval path
Evidence: authoritative
Agent B
Source: Old Note
Claim: legacy approval
path
Evidence: stale
Agent C
Source: Rollout Plan
Claim: rollout Tue 34
Evidence: overlaps window
strong / trustworthy
evidence
conflicting or problematic
Conflict Resolver
decides how conflicting writes update memory
A. Symbolic Gate
cheap deterministic checks
dependency resource
timing
B. Semantic
Reconciler
only unresolved semantic
conflicts
credibility tie-break
LLM only when rules cannot decide
1 Aauthoritative>Bstale ✓confirm new path ! keep legacy contested
2 C overlaps accepted window flag coordination conflict revise rollout
Example Trace (why these outcomes)
Update Policies (how writes are turned into memory updates)
Same claim
evidence
accumulation
merge provenance
Incompatible claims
credibility reconciliation
winner confirmed
loser contested / superseded
Colliding valid plans
coordination handling
keep both visible
revise plan
unresolvedonly
Shared Memory
stores shared memory items: key · content · evidence · time · status
key content evidence status
approval_policy new approval path policy doc, recent CONFIRMED
approval_policy legacy approval path stale note CONTESTED
rollout_window Tue 34 rollout rollout plan; overlap PROPOSED
approval_policy prior approval rule prior policy SUPERSEDED
Trusted Current State
approval_policy: new path
evidence: policy doc
Kept Visible
legacy path: contested claim
rollout Tue 34: overlap flagged
Transition Log
new path → confirmed
legacy path → contested
rollout kept for revision
Downstream Reader
/ Next Agent
persist to next round
Figure 1: LatticeMind overview on an approval-policy example. Agents write structured findings into shared
memory; a symbolic checker catches mechanical conflicts and selective LLM reconciliation resolves the rest,
separating credibility from coordination; the system then renders an auditable memory view.
reason over one scope-local slot at a time instead of
treating the entire history as undifferentiated text.
Conflict-aware update rules.LatticeMind uses
different update rules for different conflict types.
A symbolic checker first catches mechanical vi-
olations such as dependency cycles or resource
collisions. The reconciler then classifies the re-
maining semantic conflicts, in the spirit of routing
an input to the procedure that suits it rather than
applying one fixed strategy (Zhou et al., 2026a).
Credibility conflicts, where one claim should beat
another and which are the focus of our empirical
evaluation, trigger evidence-weighted supersession.
Coordination conflicts, where multiple locally valid
proposals collide over a shared resource, trigger a
conservative safety override that keeps both candi-
dates visible and re-runs planning rather than delet-
ing either. The coordination branch is included as
a design-level safety mechanism, and we do not
present it as an empirically validated improvement.
For the software-state application study, incom-
ing claims are first routed by the canonical key
in Equation (1). If a new value matches the cur-
rent value after normalization, we merge evidence
and provenance. If it differs, we compare evi-
dence strength before considering semantic sim-
ilarity. Our score is s(z) =w(evidence-type) +
40· 1[git_commit̸=/ 0], where w(·) gives higher
weight to code-backed facts than to human notes or
explicitly stale observations. In the implementation,
code-changeandincident-hotfixare strongest, fol-
lowed by configuration and runtime observations;
stale-observationis weakest.
If an incoming claim is stronger than the existing
claim for the same key, it supersedes the old state
and becomes the new current value. If it is weaker,
it is retained as a contested observation rather than
silently discarded. When evidence strength ties, we
use recency; only then do we fall back to an LLM
judge.
LatticeMind defines four update policies, each
triggered by a distinct conflict pattern. Credibility
reconciliation fires when incompatible claims de-
scribe the same fact or answer; the stronger claim
is confirmed and the weaker one is preserved as
SUPERSEDED or CONTESTED with full provenance.
Coordination handling fires on dependency cycles
or resource overlap among otherwise useful pro-
posals; candidate items remain visible, a conflict
signal is attached, and planning is rerun rather
4

===== PAGE 5 =====

than deleting proposals prematurely. Slot-first
state merge fires when two claims share the same
(entity,slot,branch,env) key but disagree on value;
the winner becomes current state and the loser is
marked contested. Evidence accumulation fires
when the same key and normalized value reappear;
sources, timestamps, and supporting evidence are
merged into the existing entry rather than spawning
duplicates.
Rendered memory.The final memory view is
externalized rather than kept as an inaccessible
hidden structure. For multi-agent reasoning, the
rendered view contains the resolved findings that
survive conflict checking and reconciliation. For
software-state tasks, the renderer produces current
scope state, contested observations, and transitions;
under tight budgets it groups tightly coupled slots
such as database with ORM or deployment with
compute/hosting. In both cases, downstream read-
ers only see the rendered memory document, so the
evaluation measures the usefulness of the memory
representation itself.
Learned operators for software-state memory.
To probe whether the memory update rules them-
selves are learnable rather than purely hand-
written, we also train lightweight LoRA (Hu et al.,
2022) adapters for three software-state operators:
extract-state,compare-claims, andupdate-memory.
extract-statemaps raw notes into normalized slot
claims;compare-claimspredicts a relation label
and winner for two competing claims; andupdate-
memorypredicts whether a new claim should be
added, merged, supersede the current state, or re-
main contested. These learned operators are used
only in the repository replay study, not in the main
ConflictBank result. This separation lets us ask a
sharper question: which parts of the software-state
pipeline transfer across repositories once the basic
conflict-aware abstraction is fixed?
3.3 Why Structured Memory?
The core design choice behind LatticeMind is that
many long-horizon failures come from implicit
memory. If multiple findings are collapsed into
a paragraph, or if all history is retained as raw text,
the system has no explicit notion of which fact
currently wins, which claim is contested, or which
update caused the transition. Structured memory re-
duces this ambiguity in three ways. First, it forces
incompatible items to meet at an explicit key or
checker-defined conflict point. Second, it preserves
Algorithm 1LatticeMind update loop
1:Input:current memoryM, new updateS t
2:Extract structured itemsE t fromS t
3:for alliteme∈E t do
4:ifeis an agent findingthen
5: append e to M with explicit status and
evidence
6:else ifeis a software-state claimthen
7:routeeby canonical keyk(e)
8: compare against current value using ev-
idence score, recency, and LLM tie-break only
if needed
9: mark the winner current and keep the
loser as contested or superseded
10:end if
11:end for
12: Run symbolic checks for dependency or re-
source conflicts
13:ifviolations existthen
14: classify them as credibility or coordination
conflicts
15: invoke LLM reconciliation only for the un-
resolved semantic cases
16:end if
17: Render M into current state, contested items,
and transition view
18:Return:rendered memory document
supersession and contestation rather than deleting
disagreement. Third, it makes later provenance and
temporal reasoning possible because changes are
stored instead of only narrated.
4 Experiments
4.1 Experimental Setup
We organize the experiments around one main
claim and one application study.
Main public contradiction benchmark.Our
main public benchmark is ConflictBank (Su et al.,
2024), where multiple evidence sources disagree
and the model must select the correct answer.
We compare LatticeMind against five baselines:
SINGLE-AGENTreads all evidence in one pass,
NO-MERGEmerges multiple agent outputs naively,
and MAJORITYVOTE, DEBATE, and JUDGEaggre-
gate at the answer level. All methods are evaluated
on the same 75 examples with Qwen3-Max.
Label-blind protocol.The original ConflictBank
construction names each source by its role (au-
5

===== PAGE 6 =====

thoritative source,alternative source,recent re-
port), and these names are a potential oracle cue: a
reader could prefer “authoritative source” regard-
less of memory state. To remove this confound, we
evaluate every method under a label-blind proto-
col that renames the three sources to neutral iden-
tifiersSource A,Source B, andSource C, drops
any trust hint from the reader prompts, and uses
the same neutral labels across LatticeMind and
all baselines. All ConflictBank methods consume
the same evidence pool under the same neutral
identifiers. The principal difference at the answer-
aggregation layer is whether incompatible findings
are resolved through an explicit persistent memory
update (LatticeMind) or aggregated at the answer
level (all baselines); the appendix quantifies the
additional checker and reconciler overhead and re-
ports a fairness check via an evidence-tag ablation
(Section A.10 and the discussion of same-pool base-
line parity). All ConflictBank numbers reported in
the main paper are produced under this protocol.
Secondary public benchmarks.We also re-
port NaturalPlan Calendar (Zheng et al., 2024),
PlanBench (Valmeekam et al., 2023), TravelPlan-
ner (Xie et al., 2024), and REALM JSSP (Geng
and Chang, 2025). These are not contradiction
benchmarks in the same sense as ConflictBank; we
include them to map the boundary of the method.
Application study: software-state tracking.As
an application of the same memory design, we
instantiate LatticeMind as a slot-first state mem-
ory for long-horizon repository tracking. We com-
pare four methods: CONCATconcatenates session
notes, LLM-MERGEproduces a one-pass sum-
mary, LLM-MERGE-INCupdates a summary in-
crementally, and STATEMEMORYis the slot-first
LatticeMind instantiation. The benchmark contains
three scenario families:authority-overwrite,scope-
divergence, andincident-timeline. We focus on
the strongest stress test,BUDGETED LONG-NOISE,
where scenarios are lengthened with stale, branch,
and documentation noise; methods produce docu-
ments of at most 1700 characters and the reader
sees at most 1400 characters.
Metrics.ConflictBank is measured by answer ac-
curacy. Software-state query answering evaluates
current-state,scoped-state,provenance,temporal,
andstale-suppression. Answers are generated by
an LLM reader but scored deterministically with
required, forbidden, and any-of token checks.
Single-
Agent
No-
Merge
Majority
Vote
Debate Judge Lattice-
Mind
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00Accuracy
0.63
0.32
0.61
0.45
0.60
0.97
Figure 2: Label-blind ConflictBank accuracy across
methods (75 examples). LatticeMind reaches 0.97, far
above the strongest baseline overall (Single-Agent, 0.63)
and the strongest answer-aggregation baseline (Majority
V ote, 0.61). All baselines are paired-McNemar signifi-
cantly below LatticeMind atp<10 −6.
Real-repository bridge.To partially improve ex-
ternal validity, we add a replay-based bridge over
two real Codex commit trajectories: a permissions-
flow rollout and an exec/app-server rollout. Scenar-
ios are built from real commit subjects, summaries,
dates, and touched files, then replayed through the
same state-memory pipeline.
Learned repo-operator study.We train 4-bit
QLoRA (Dettmers et al., 2023) adapters on
Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct (Qwen Team, 2024) for
the three operator tasks of Section 3:extract-state,
compare-claims, andupdate-memory. We evalu-
ate them in a five-way leave-one-out setting over
replayed Codex trajectories, holding out one tra-
jectory and reporting schema-only scores on the
unseen trajectory.
4.2 Main Public Results
Figure 2 is the core result of the paper. Under the
label-blind protocol described in Section 4.1, in
which the three evidence sources are presented to
every method as Source A, Source B, and Source
C without any role-revealing names or trust hints,
LatticeMind reaches 0.97. The strongest answer-
level baselines cluster more than 30 points below:
Single-Agent at 0.63, Majority V ote at 0.61, and
Judge at 0.60; NO-MERGEand DEBATElag further
at 0.32 and 0.45. The discordant-pair counts in
Table 9 are highly asymmetric: e.g. NO-MERGEis
wrong on 49 examples that LatticeMind answers
correctly and never wins on the cases LatticeMind
misses. The advantage is therefore not produced by
6

===== PAGE 7 =====

Table 1: ConflictBank single-pass ablation, 50 sam-
ples. Conflict rate is the fraction of examples where the
symbolic checker flags an unresolved conflict in the ren-
dered memory at answer time (lower is better). The last
row is not an ablation: it re-runs the full configuration
and serves as a run-to-run noise control (see text).
Configuration Accuracy↑Conflict↓
Full 0.96 0.00
−checker 0.84 0.10
−reconciler 0.82 0.08
Full (repeat) 0.96 0.02
the prompt naming any source as authoritative; it
comes from forcing incompatible findings through
an explicit memory update and reconciliation step
before rendering an answer.
4.3 Ablation on Contradiction Handling
Table 1 reports the single-pass setting used by the
final system. Point estimates drop 12 to 14 points
when either the checker or the reconciler is re-
moved. McNemar tests on the per-sample correct-
ness array (Section A.11) confirm the reconciler
ablation at p<0.05 , while the checker ablation is
directionally consistent at p=0.07 (limited by the
50-sample size). The last row deserves an explicit
caveat. It was originally intended as an evidence-
label ablation, stripping role names such as “au-
thoritative source” from the evidence attached to
each finding. Under the label-blind protocol those
role names are already absent, so the configuration
reduces to a second run of the full system. We re-
port it as a run-to-run noise control: it lands on the
same accuracy with zero discordant pairs, which
bounds sampling variance but says nothing about
the contribution of evidence labels. That question is
answered instead by Table 8, where removing role
names from the reader prompt costs every baseline
8 to 15 points and LatticeMind only 2.
The per-metric breakdown in Table 2 (bottom)
shows where the software-state gains come from
after hardening the benchmark. The informative
gap remains in provenance and temporal reasoning,
which is where free-form summaries tend to com-
press away the evidence needed for auditable state
tracking.
4.4 Boundary on Coordination and Planning
Figure 3 compares LatticeMind against NO-
MERGE, the most apples-to-apples baseline since
both methods use the same multi-agent pool and
NaturalPlan
Calendar
PlanBench Travel
Planner
REALM
JSSP
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00Score
0.67
0.47
0.87
0.10
0.80
+0.13
0.60
+0.13
0.80
-0.07
0.20
+0.10
No-Merge LatticeMind
Figure 3: Secondary public benchmarks. Apples-to-
apples comparison against NO-MERGE, the natural
baseline that uses the same multi-agent pool but no rec-
onciliation. LatticeMind matches or beats NO-MERGE
on three of four tasks. The full table including SINGLE-
AGENT, MAJORITYVOTE, DEBATE, and JUDGEis in
Table 3.
differ only in whether conflicts are reconciled.
The reconciliation step adds 13 points on Natu-
ralPlan Calendar (n=15) and 13 points on Plan-
Bench (n=15), and shows a 10-point exploratory
gain on REALM JSSP (n=10, 2/10 vs. 1/10), while
it costs 7 points on TravelPlanner (n=10). The Trav-
elPlanner regression is informative: the benchmark
is a single-shot constraint problem that single-agent
inference already solves at 0.97, so the multi-agent
overhead introduces variance without conflicts to
resolve. The REALM gap is small in absolute
samples and we read it as exploratory rather than
confirmatory.
The full per-method numbers in Table 3 show
LatticeMind is top on PlanBench (0.60 vs. next-
best 0.47) and third on NaturalPlan Calendar be-
hind DEBATEand JUDGE(both 0.87); both delib-
eration methods exploit iterative refinement toward
a globally consistent schedule, which one-shot rec-
onciliation does not target.
4.5 Application Study: Software-State
Tracking
Table 2 reports the application study under a harder
query set. On the targeted budgeted long-noise
benchmark, STATEMEMORYreaches 0.83 over-
all, compared with 0.70 for the strongest summary
baseline LLM-MERGE-INC. The gap is informa-
tive because all methods operate under the same
document and reader budgets, and the queries stress
7

===== PAGE 8 =====

Table 2: Software-state results. Top: overall scores on the two benchmarks. Bottom: per-metric breakdown on the
harder budgeted long-noise benchmark (near-ceiling current-state retrieval is in the appendix). Higher is better.
Concat LLM-Merge LLM-Merge-Inc StateMemory
Overall scores
Budgeted long-noise 0.52 0.51 0.70 0.83
Repo bridge (v2) 0.18 0.61 0.41 0.51
Per-metric breakdown (budgeted long-noise)
Scoped state 0.78 0.89 0.89 0.89
Provenance 0.50 0.00 0.61 0.81
Temporal 0.23 0.18 0.38 0.77
Stale suppression 0.67 0.78 0.78 0.78
authority
overwrite
scope
divergence
incident
timeline
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0Score
0.25
0.60
0.72
0.83
0.72
0.95
Concat StateMemory
Figure 4: Per-family scores on the budgeted long-noise
benchmark. STATEMEMORYdominates CONCATon
every scenario family, with the largest absolute gap on
authority-overwritewhere stale claims must be sup-
pressed.
provenance, temporal ordering, and stale suppres-
sion. The per-metric breakdown shows the gap is
dominated by provenance, 0.81 against 0.61, and
temporal reasoning, 0.77 against 0.38, which are
the dimensions free-form summaries tend to com-
press away.
Figure 4 confirms the pattern at the family level:
CONCATdrops to 0.25 onauthority-overwrite
where stale claims must be actively suppressed,
while STATEMEMORYreaches 0.83. The harder
repo bridge is challenging for the current instan-
tiation (LLM-MERGE0.61 vs. STATEMEMORY
0.51), suggesting the slot schema can miss sparse
commit-level evidence a strong summarizer com-
presses well.
0.0
0.5
1.0Score
0.76
0.88 0.88 0.81
0.710.74
0.94 0.89 0.85 0.86
Overall
Permissions
flow
Exec/
app-server
Browser
surface
Model
routing
Patch
guardrails
0.0
0.5
1.0Score
0.25
0.60
0.42
0.25
0.00
0.17
0.80
0.50
0.42
0.50
Extract
Direct Two-stage
Figure 5: Five-way leave-one-out replay for learned op-
erators. Top: overall; bottom: extraction-only.compare-
claimsandupdate-memorysaturate at 1.00 in both set-
tings and are omitted; full per-holdout breakdown in
Section A.6.
4.6 Learned Operators on Unseen Repository
Trajectories
The Direct bars in Figure 5 separate the operator-
level story from the end-to-end bridge:compare-
claimsandupdate-memorysaturate, so variation
comes from overall transfer and especiallyextract-
state(mean 0.30, worst casepatch-guardrailsat
zero). The learned memory policy transfers; extrac-
tion does not yet match.
The Two-stage bars mitigate this: a constrained
procedure that first selects supported entity-slot
pairs and then generates values raises overall from
0.81 to 0.86 and extraction from 0.30 to 0.48, with
the largest gain onpatch-guardrails(0 to 0.50 ex-
traction). Four of five holdouts improve; the single
regression onpermissions-flowshows constrained
decoding can prune correct values when the direct
8

===== PAGE 9 =====

extractor already grounds the right entity.
4.7 Discussion
LatticeMind wins when the bottleneck is deciding
which incompatible claim to trust, and underper-
forms when it is search, deliberation, or holistic
generation: ConflictBank is the cleanest case, and
the ablation confirms the checker and reconciler
are complementary. The secondary planning tasks
map this boundary, where the memory-update ad-
vantage cannot fully fire yet LatticeMind still beats
naive merge on three of four. On the software-
state surface the gain concentrates in provenance
and temporal questions; qualitative cases appear in
Section A.8.
5 Conclusion
We presented LatticeMind, a conflict-aware mem-
ory primitive that represents item status, evidence,
and supersession, and combines cheap symbolic
checks with selective LLM reconciliation. It sub-
stantially improves over single-agent and aggre-
gation baselines on ConflictBank, and the same
update rules transfer to long-horizon software-state
tracking. A learned-operator study localizes the
remaining gap to extraction rather than the update
rule, pointing future work toward stronger extrac-
tion.
Limitations
LatticeMind targets contradiction handling and is
not a universal replacement for search or delib-
eration, as our secondary results illustrate. The
evaluation uses a single hosted LLM with default
decoding; the released runners record per-sample
outcomes and draw their samples under a fixed
seed, so any future model can be scored on the
same examples in subsequent work.
Ethics Statement
This work studies structured memory representa-
tions and conflict handling for LLM agents. It
does not introduce a human-subject dataset, and
the software-state bridge uses only public Codex
repository metadata. By design, the rendered mem-
ory exposes provenance, contested states, and ex-
plicit status transitions to support human oversight;
deployments in high-stakes settings should pair the
rendered view with appropriate validation.
References
Prateek Chhikara, Dev Khant, Saket Aryan, Taranjeet
Singh, and Deshraj Yadav. 2025. Mem0: Building
production-ready AI agents with scalable long-term
memory.arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.19413.
Tim Dettmers, Artidoro Pagnoni, Ari Holtzman, and
Luke Zettlemoyer. 2023. QLoRA: Efficient finetun-
ing of quantized LLMs. InAdvances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Yilun Du, Shuang Li, Antonio Torralba, Joshua B.
Tenenbaum, and Igor Mordatch. 2024. Improving
factuality and reasoning in language models through
multiagent debate. InInternational Conference on
Machine Learning (ICML).
Yukang Feng, Jianwen Sun, Zelai Yang, Jiaxin Ai,
Chuanhao Li, Zizhen Li, Fanrui Zhang, Kang He,
Rui Ma, Jifan Lin, Jie Sun, Yang Xiao, Sizhuo Zhou,
Wenxiao Wu, Yiming Liu, Pengfei Liu, Yu Qiao,
Shenglin Zhang, and Kaipeng Zhang. 2026. Longcli-
bench: A preliminary benchmark and study for long-
horizon agentic programming in command-line inter-
faces.arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.14337.
Longling Geng and Edward Y . Chang. 2025. REALM-
Bench: A benchmark for evaluating multi-agent sys-
tems on real-world, dynamic planning and scheduling
tasks.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.18836.
Taicheng Guo, Xiuying Chen, Yaqi Wang, Ruidi Chang,
Shichao Pei, Nitesh V . Chawla, Olaf Wiest, and Xi-
angliang Zhang. 2024. Large language model based
multi-agents: A survey of progress and challenges.
InProceedings of the 33rd International Joint Con-
ference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI).
Bernal Jiménez Gutiérrez, Yiheng Shu, Yu Gu, Michi-
hiro Yasunaga, and Yu Su. 2024. HippoRAG: Neu-
robiologically inspired long-term memory for large
language models. InAdvances in Neural Information
Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Sirui Hong, Mingchen Zhuge, Jonathan Chen, Xiawu
Zheng, Yuheng Cheng, Jinlin Wang, Ceyao Zhang,
Zili Wang, Steven Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang
Zhou, Chenyu Ran, Lingfeng Xiao, Chenglin Wu,
and Jürgen Schmidhuber. 2024. MetaGPT: Meta pro-
gramming for a multi-agent collaborative framework.
InInternational Conference on Learning Representa-
tions (ICLR).
Edward J. Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan
Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and
Weizhu Chen. 2022. LoRA: Low-rank adaptation of
large language models. InInternational Conference
on Learning Representations (ICLR).
Yuanzhe Hu, Yu Wang, and Julian McAuley. 2025a.
Evaluating memory in LLM agents via incre-
mental multi-turn interactions.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2507.05257.
9

===== PAGE 10 =====

Yuyang Hu, Shichun Liu, Yanwei Yue, Guibin Zhang,
Boyang Liu, Fangyi Zhu, Jiahang Lin, Honglin Guo,
Shihan Dou, Zhiheng Xi, Senjie Jin, Jiejun Tan, Yan-
bin Yin, Jiongnan Liu, Zeyu Zhang, Zhongxiang Sun,
Yutao Zhu, Hao Sun, Boci Peng, and 28 others. 2025b.
Memory in the age of AI agents.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2512.13564.
Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig,
Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R.
Narasimhan. 2024. SWE-bench: Can language mod-
els resolve real-world GitHub issues? InInter-
national Conference on Learning Representations
(ICLR).
Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio
Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Hein-
rich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rock-
täschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020.
Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-
intensive NLP tasks. InAdvances in Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Guohao Li, Hasan Abed Al Kader Hammoud, Hani
Itani, Dmitrii Khizbullin, and Bernard Ghanem. 2023.
CAMEL: Communicative agents for “mind” explo-
ration of large language model society. InAdvances
in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Adyasha Maharana, Dong-Ho Lee, Sergey Tulyakov,
Mohit Bansal, Francesco Barbieri, and Yuwei Fang.
2024. Evaluating very long-term conversational
memory of LLM agents. InProceedings of the 62nd
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 13851–
13870. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Kevin Meng, David Bau, Alex Andonian, and Yonatan
Belinkov. 2022. Locating and editing factual associ-
ations in GPT. InAdvances in Neural Information
Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Charles Packer, Sarah Wooders, Kevin Lin, Vivian Fang,
Shishir G. Patil, Ion Stoica, and Joseph E. Gonzalez.
2023. MemGPT: Towards LLMs as operating sys-
tems.arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08560.
Joon Sung Park, Joseph C. O’Brien, Carrie J. Cai,
Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S.
Bernstein. 2023. Generative agents: Interactive simu-
lacra of human behavior. InProceedings of the 36th
Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software
and Technology (UIST).
Chen Qian, Wei Liu, Hongzhang Liu, Nuo Chen, Yufan
Dang, Jiahao Li, Cheng Yang, Weize Chen, Yusheng
Su, Xin Cong, Juyuan Xu, Dahai Li, Zhiyuan Liu,
and Maosong Sun. 2024. ChatDev: Communicative
agents for software development. InProceedings of
the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics (ACL), pages 15174–15186.
Qwen Team. 2024. Qwen2.5 technical report.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2412.15115.
Preston Rasmussen, Pavlo Paliychuk, Travis Beauvais,
Jack Ryan, and Daniel Chalef. 2025. Zep: A tempo-
ral knowledge graph architecture for agent memory.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.13956.
Marc Shapiro, Nuno Preguiça, Carlos Baquero, and
Marek Zawirski. 2011. Conflict-free replicated data
types. InStabilization, Safety, and Security of Dis-
tributed Systems (SSS), volume 6976 ofLecture Notes
in Computer Science. Springer.
Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath,
Karthik Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. 2023. Re-
flexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement
learning. InAdvances in Neural Information Pro-
cessing Systems (NeurIPS).
Zhaochen Su, Jun Zhang, Xiaoye Qu, Tong Zhu, Yanshu
Li, Jiashuo Sun, Juntao Li, Min Zhang, and Yu Cheng.
2024. ConflictBank: A benchmark for evaluating
the influence of knowledge conflicts in LLM. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS), Datasets and Benchmarks Track.
Theodore R. Sumers, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan,
and Thomas L. Griffiths. 2024. Cognitive architec-
tures for language agents.Transactions on Machine
Learning Research (TMLR).
Haoran Tan, Zeyu Zhang, Chen Ma, Xu Chen, Quanyu
Dai, and Zhenhua Dong. 2025. Membench: Towards
more comprehensive evaluation on the memory of
llm-based agents. InFindings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: ACL 2025, pages 19336–
19352. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Karthik Valmeekam, Matthew Marquez, Alberto Olmo,
Sarath Sreedharan, and Subbarao Kambhampati.
2023. PlanBench: An extensible benchmark for
evaluating large language models on planning and
reasoning about change. InAdvances in Neural In-
formation Processing Systems (NeurIPS), Datasets
and Benchmarks Track.
Xingyao Wang, Boxuan Li, Yufan Song, Frank F. Xu,
Xiangru Tang, Mingchen Zhuge, Jiayi Pan, Yueqi
Song, Bowen Li, Jaskirat Singh, Hoang H. Tran,
Fuqiang Li, Ren Ma, Mingzhang Zheng, Bill Qian,
Yanjun Shao, Niklas Muennighoff, Yizhe Zhang,
Binyuan Hui, and 5 others. 2024. OpenHands: An
open platform for AI software developers as general-
ist agents.arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.16741.
Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc V .
Le, Ed H. Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowd-
hery, and Denny Zhou. 2023. Self-consistency im-
proves chain of thought reasoning in language mod-
els. InInternational Conference on Learning Repre-
sentations (ICLR).
Yu Wang and Xi Chen. 2025. MIRIX: Multi-agent mem-
ory system for LLM-based agents.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2507.07957.
Di Wu, Hongwei Wang, Wenhao Yu, Yuwei Zhang,
Kai-Wei Chang, and Dong Yu. 2025. Longmemeval:
10

===== PAGE 11 =====

Benchmarking chat assistants on long-term interac-
tive memory. InInternational Conference on Learn-
ing Representations.
Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu,
Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun Zhang,
Shaokun Zhang, Jiale Liu, Ahmed Hassan Awadal-
lah, Ryen W. White, Doug Burger, and Chi Wang.
2023. AutoGen: Enabling next-gen LLM applica-
tions via multi-agent conversation.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.08155.
Zhiheng Xi, Wenxiang Chen, Xin Guo, Wei He, Yiwen
Ding, Boyang Hong, Ming Zhang, Junzhe Wang, Sen-
jie Jin, Enyu Zhou, Rui Zheng, Xiaoran Fan, Xiao
Wang, Limao Xiong, Yuhao Zhou, Weiran Wang,
Changhao Jiang, Yicheng Zou, Xiangyang Liu, and
10 others. 2023. The rise and potential of large lan-
guage model based agents: A survey.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.07864.
Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yinlin Deng, Soren Dunn, and
Lingming Zhang. 2024. Agentless: Demystifying
LLM-based software engineering agents.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2407.01489.
Jian Xie, Kai Zhang, Jiangjie Chen, Tinghui Zhu, Renze
Lou, Yuandong Tian, Yanghua Xiao, and Yu Su. 2024.
TravelPlanner: A benchmark for real-world planning
with language agents. InInternational Conference
on Machine Learning (ICML).
Rongwu Xu, Zehan Qi, Zhijiang Guo, Cunxiang Wang,
Hongru Wang, Yue Zhang, and Wei Xu. 2024.
Knowledge conflicts for LLMs: A survey. In
Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP),
pages 8541–8565.
Wujiang Xu, Zujie Liang, Kai Mei, Hang Gao, Jun-
tao Tan, and Yongfeng Zhang. 2025. A-MEM:
Agentic memory for LLM agents.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.12110.
John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian
Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir
Press. 2024. SWE-agent: Agent-computer interfaces
enable automated software engineering. InAdvances
in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak
Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. 2023.
ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language
models. InInternational Conference on Learning
Representations (ICLR).
Guibin Zhang, Hejia Geng, Xiaohang Yu, Zhenfei Yin,
Zaibin Zhang, Zelin Tan, Heng Zhou, Zhongzhi Li,
Xiangyuan Xue, Yijiang Li, Yifan Zhou, Yang Chen,
Chen Zhang, Yutao Fan, Zihu Wang, Songtao Huang,
Francisco Piedrahita-Velez, Yue Liao, Hongru Wang,
and 6 others. 2026. The landscape of agentic rein-
forcement learning for LLMs: A survey.Transac-
tions on Machine Learning Research (TMLR).
Qinggang Zhang, Zhishang Xiang, Yilin Xiao, Le Wang,
Junhui Li, Xinrun Wang, and Jinsong Su. 2025. Faith-
fulRAG: Fact-level conflict modeling for context-
faithful retrieval-augmented generation.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2506.08938.
Huaixiu Steven Zheng, Swaroop Mishra, Hugh Zhang,
Xinyun Chen, Minmin Chen, Azade Nova, Le Hou,
Heng-Tze Cheng, Quoc V . Le, Ed H. Chi, and Denny
Zhou. 2024. NATURAL PLAN: Benchmarking
LLMs on natural language planning.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.04520.
Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan
Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin,
Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric P. Xing, Hao Zhang,
Joseph E. Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. 2023. Judging
LLM-as-a-judge with MT-Bench and chatbot arena.
InAdvances in Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems (NeurIPS), Datasets and Benchmarks Track.
Heng Zhou, Hejia Geng, Xiangyuan Xue, Li Kang, Yi-
ran Qin, Zhiyong Wang, Zhenfei Yin, and Lei Bai.
2025. RESO: A reward-driven self-organizing LLM-
based multi-agent system for reasoning tasks. In
Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP).
Heng Zhou, Zelin Tan, Zhemeng Zhang, Yutao Fan,
Yibing Lin, Li Kang, Xiufeng Song, Rui Li, Songtao
Huang, Ao Yu, Yuchen Fan, Yanxu Chen, Kaixin
Xu, Xiaohong Liu, Yiran Qin, Philip Torr, Chen
Zhang, and Zhenfei Yin. 2026a. Select-then-solve:
Paradigm routing as inference-time optimization for
LLM agents. InICML Workshop on Failure Modes
of Agentic AI.
Heng Zhou, Ao Yu, Yuchen Fan, Jianing Shi, Li Kang,
Hejia Geng, Yongting Zhang, Yutao Fan, Yuhao Wu,
Tiancheng He, Yiran Qin, Lei Bai, and Zhenfei Yin.
2026b. LiveSearchBench: An automatically con-
structed benchmark for retrieval and reasoning over
dynamic knowledge. InICML Workshop on Failure
Modes of Agentic AI.
A Additional Experimental Details
A.1 Reproducibility Statement
Artifacts.The implementation comprises the
LatticeMind memory, the benchmark runners, the
prompt-based baselines, all prompt templates ver-
batim, and stand-alone analysis scripts that com-
pute the bootstrap intervals and McNemar tests
of Section A.11 and draw Figures 2 to 4. Each
runner records per-sample outcomes rather than
aggregates alone, alongside the command, sample
size, seed and model that produced them, so every
reported statistic recomputes offline from a com-
pleted run without re-querying the hosted model.
Two artifacts are not reusable in that way. The
raw prompt/response logs embed ConflictBank ev-
idence passages verbatim, and that corpus carries
11

===== PAGE 12 =====

no redistribution license. The numbers behind Fig-
ure 5 depend on QLoRA adapter checkpoints, so re-
producing them requires re-running the fine-tuning
rather than replaying a stored array.
Models and versions.Prompt-based experi-
ments use Qwen3-Max accessed through Open-
Router (snapshot of the public Qwen3-Max end-
point at submission time, default temperature). The
learned-operator study uses 4-bit QLoRA adapters
on Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct (Qwen Team, 2024)
with rank 16, alpha 32, applied to all attention and
MLP projection matrices. Because hosted LLMs
may evolve, exact reruns may vary with provider-
side model updates unless the endpoint is version-
pinned; the runners therefore record per-sample
outcomes rather than aggregates alone, so every
reported statistic can be recomputed from a run
without re-querying the model for each figure.
Compute.Prompt-based runs were executed on
a single workstation, and per-sample cost is dom-
inated by hosted-LLM API latency rather than lo-
cal compute. The QLoRA adapter training used a
single NVIDIA H100 80GB GPU. Each five-way
leave-one-out run, including training and evalua-
tion across all five folds, completes in roughly 6 to
8 GPU-hours, for an aggregate budget of approxi-
mately 40 GPU-hours.
Dataset and artifact licenses.ConflictBank (Su
et al., 2024) is released for research use by
its authors. NaturalPlan (Zheng et al., 2024),
PlanBench (Valmeekam et al., 2023), TravelPlan-
ner (Xie et al., 2024), and REALM-Bench (Geng
and Chang, 2025) are publicly released for aca-
demic evaluation under their respective project li-
censes. The Codex commit trajectories used in
the repo-bridge are derived from a public open-
source repository under its declared license; we re-
play only commit metadata (subject, date, touched
files) and short hand-written summaries, never pro-
prietary content. Unit tests cover the core lattice,
merge, reconciler, belief, and software-state bench-
mark components.
A.2 Public Benchmark Context
Beyond ConflictBank, we evaluated LatticeMind
on four public long-horizon tasks. Table 3 reports
every available method on each task; the main pa-
per compares only against NO-MERGEfor clarity.
LatticeMind is the top method on PlanBench, beats
NO-MERGEon three of four tasks, and is competi-
tive on NaturalPlan Calendar where two stronger
deliberation methods exploit the iterative-schedule
structure of the task.
Table 3: Full per-method scores on the four secondary
public benchmarks. Calendar is exact match (n=15),
PlanBench is goal-reached rate (n=15), TravelPlanner
is constraint pass rate (n=10), REALM JSSP is validity
rate (n=10). A dash means the baseline was not run on
that task.
Method Calendar PlanBench Travel REALM
Single-Agent 0.20 0.27 0.97 0.20
No-Merge 0.67 0.47 0.87 0.10
Majority V ote 0.13 0.40 — —
Debate 0.87 0.40 — —
Judge 0.87 0.20 — —
LatticeMind0.80 0.60 0.80 0.20
A.3 Software-State Tracks
The software-state benchmark includes four tracks:
structured,raw-notes, budgeted, andrepo-
bridge. The main paper emphasizes the budgeted
track because it is the strongest stress test of mem-
ory under document constraints. In that track, the
writer budget is 1700 characters and the reader bud-
get is 1400 characters. The compact renderer is
enabled so that all methods are compared under
the same external memory budget rather than the
internal size of their hidden data structures. In the
latest harder version used in the paper, the query
sets were expanded to include more provenance,
rollback, scope-confusion, and stale-suppression
questions, which lowers the earlier ceiling effects.
Table 4: Full metric breakdown for the harder budgeted
long-noise software-state benchmark. The current-state
row is included here rather than in the main paper be-
cause it is already near ceiling for the stronger methods.
SM = StateMemory.
Metric Concat Merge Merge-Inc SM
Current state 0.78 1.00 1.00 1.00
Scoped state 0.78 0.89 0.89 0.89
Provenance 0.50 0.00 0.61 0.81
Temporal 0.23 0.18 0.38 0.77
Stale suppression 0.67 0.78 0.78 0.78
A.4 Scenario Families
Authority overwrite.Sessions interleave code-
backed changes with stale observations and out-
dated documentation. This family stresses whether
12

===== PAGE 13 =====

the memory can suppress stale claims while pre-
serving provenance to the winning update.
Scope divergence.Production, staging, and
feature-preview states coexist. This family tests
whether the memory preserves branch and environ-
ment scope rather than collapsing everything into a
single project-wide summary.
Incident timeline.Rollback and restore events
create non-monotonic state histories. This family
emphasizes temporal questions such as when a roll-
back happened and which later commit restored
the prior configuration.
A.5 Real-Repository Bridge
The bridge experiment replays two real Codex com-
mit trajectories: (i) a permissions-flow rollout and
(ii) an exec/app-server rollout. Each replay ses-
sion contains the real commit date, subject, a short
summary, touched-file hints, and a structured state
card derived from the commit. We additionally
interleave later stale notes that make plausible but
wrong inferences about the rollout, so the bridge
now probes whether a memory system can retain
the authoritative change history while suppress-
ing late contradictory observations. In the harder
v2 used by the final paper draft, each case re-
ceives extra distractor sessions and more multi-hop
provenance/temporal questions; under this setting,
LLM-MERGEreaches 0.61 overall, STATEMEM-
ORY0.51, LLM-MERGE-INC0.41, and CONCAT
0.18. The bridge is therefore more realistic than
purely synthetic scenarios, but it is still a curated
replay rather than an unrestricted benchmark over
raw diffs.
A.6 Learned Operator Study
To separate the memory update rule from the ex-
traction bottleneck, we trained QLoRA adapters
on Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct for three software-
state operators:extract-state,compare-claims, and
update-memory. Training data mixes the synthetic
software-state scenarios with replay-derived repo
examples, and evaluation uses five leave-one-out
Codex trajectories:permissions-flow,exec-app-
server,browser-surface,model-routing, andpatch-
guardrails. Under schema-only normalization, the
learned adapters are already at ceiling on the cur-
rentcompare-claimsandupdate-memoryevalua-
tion across all five holdouts, whileextract-state
averages 0.30 claim-F1. We therefore interpret the
learned study as evidence that the conflict/update
abstraction itself transfers, while extraction re-
mains the limiting factor.
Table 5: Full per-holdout learned-operator breakdown
for the five-way leave-one-out repository replay study.
The compare/update columns saturate to 1.0 in both
direct and two-stage settings; the main paper folds these
into Figure 5.
Holdout Overall Extract Compare Update
Permissions flow 0.76 0.25 1.00 1.00
Exec/app-server 0.88 0.60 1.00 1.00
Browser surface 0.88 0.42 1.00 1.00
Model routing 0.81 0.25 1.00 1.00
Patch guardrails 0.71 0.00 1.00 1.00
Mean0.81 0.30 1.00 1.00
The constrained two-stage decoder helps most
when the direct extractor emits the wrong entity
family or collapses under longer evidence strings.
This is whypatch-guardrailsgains the most: the di-
rect extractor often drifts into neighboring approval
or TUI entities, while the two-stage extractor at
least selects the correctpatch-runtimeslots before
attempting value generation.
Representative error pattern.Onpatch-
guardrails, the direct extractor often maps the
note about guarded apply_patch execution onto
the wrong entity family, producing malformed
or irrelevant exec/tui claims and yielding
zero extraction credit. The two-stage extrac-
tor fixes the entity-slot selection and recovers
patch_runtime.execution, but it can still
generate an overly generic value such as “patch
requests use the experimental tool-call approval
flow” instead of the gold “ apply_patch runs
through the structured diff engine.” Onbrowser-
surface, by contrast, the two-stage extractor often
recovers both the browser_runtime.execution
and browser_runtime.file_storage slots
from the same note, which is enough to move
the example from partial credit to full semantic
match. These cases reinforce the same conclusion
as the aggregate numbers: extraction errors are
now mostly about grounding the right value, not
about conflict/update logic. Figure 6 visualizes a
representativepatch-guardrailsexample.
A.7 Earlier Open-Ended Coding-Memory
Iteration
Before building the current software-state bench-
mark, we also ran an earlier open-ended coding-
13

===== PAGE 14 =====

Figure 6: Representativepatch-guardrailsextraction example. The direct extractor drifts into the wrong
entity/slot family and normalizes to an empty claim set, while the two-stage extractor recovers the correct
patch_runtime/approvalsframe and only misses on value specificity.
memory benchmark over multi-session project evo-
lution scenarios. That earlier setup often favored
free-form summarization baselines and did not con-
sistently show an advantage for the structured belief
pipeline. In hindsight, it rewarded broad overview
generation more than precise stale-suppression,
scope preservation, or provenance retrieval. This
negative result directly motivated the narrower
software-state benchmark used in the main paper.
A.8 Qualitative Case Studies
Table 6 shows two replayed cases from the real
Codex bridge. We use real commit trajectories
rather than synthetic scenarios because the qualita-
tive value of LatticeMind is easiest to see when sev-
eral small implementation changes must be turned
into a stable operational picture. In both cases, the
rendered memory is compact enough to fit within
the benchmark budget while still preserving the
commit-level provenance that downstream ques-
tions require.
These cases illustrate a practical difference be-
tween structured state memory and summary-only
approaches. The summary baselines can often re-
state the current architecture in fluent prose, but
they do not reliably keep the exact commit attri-
bution aligned with the correct change boundary.
The rendered LatticeMind state, by contrast, makes
the causal chain explicit enough that a downstream
reader can answer both “what is true now?” and
“which change introduced it?” from the same com-
pact document.
A.9 Implementation Details
Memory item state machine.Each
memory item carries a status η∈
{PROPOSED,CONFIRMED,CONTESTED,SUPERSEDED} .
All items start as PROPOSED; the symbolic checker
can transition to CONTESTED; the reconciler
transitions to CONFIRMEDor SUPERSEDED; and
SUPERSEDEDis terminal (backward transitions are
forbidden). State transitions are applied centrally
by the orchestrator so that the rendered view
reflects only confirmed and explicitly contested
items.
Symbolic checker.The checker performs
two cheap structural passes. First, it builds
a directed graph from DEPENDENCY edges
and rejects any cycle (NetworkX strongly-
connected-component scan). Second, it
parses CONSTRAINT content with the regex
resource:(\S+)\s+time:(\d+)-(\d+) and
14

===== PAGE 15 =====

Table 6: Qualitative case studies from replayed real repository trajectories. Each row shows the same progression:
input sessions from real commits, the compact rendered memory produced by STATEMEMORY, and representative
downstream outputs.
Input sessions Rendered memory state Example output
Case 1: permissions flow rollout
e6b93841c: add built-in
request_permissionstool and
forward approvals through
app-server v2
340f9c9ec: add
skillMetadatato exec approval
requests
06f82c123: TUI renders the
approval overlay
Current state
permissions_flow.approvals= built-in
request_permissionsvia
requestApproval
permissions_flow.ui_integration=
TUI renders approval overlay
exec_approval.approvals= exec requests
includeskillMetadata
Transitions
tool introduced ine6b93841c; UI surface
added later in06f82c123
Query answer
“Which commit introduced the
built-in tool?”→e6b93841c
Task output
permissions-flow: running turns use
request_permissionsand
forward approval through
app-server v2
ui-surface: TUI renders the
approval overlay
Case 2: exec/app-server rollout
a684a3609: app-server
hot-reloads user config after batch
write
da3689f0e: non-interactive exec
switches to an in-process app
server
340f9c9ec: exec approvals carry
skillMetadata
Current state
exec_runtime.app_server= in-process
app server
exec_runtime.execution= non-interactive
exec uses app server
app_server.config_reload= hot-reload
user config
exec_approval.approvals= include
skillMetadata
Transitions
config hot-reload appears before the exec
runtime switch
Query answer
“What behavior was added before
exec switched?”→hot-reload user
config, commita684a3609
Task output
runtime: exec uses the in-process
app server
approvals: exec approval requests
carryskillMetadata
config: app-server hot-reloads
user config
reports an interval overlap whenever s1 <e 2 and
s2 <e 1 for two intervals over the same resource
(so adjacent boundaries do not collide). Each
detected violation is emitted with the IDs of
the two conflicting entries; the reconciler then
decides whether to supersede or to retain both as a
coordination signal.
Evidence weight table.Table 7 lists the full
evidence-type weights used in the software-
state score s(z) =w(evidence-type) +40·
1[git_commit̸=/ 0]. Strong code-backed signals
outrank notes and especially explicitly stale
observations. The git-backed bonus dominates
ordinary type differences, which lets a freshly
committed change supersede a stale note without
further LLM judgment.
ConflictBank agents and prompts.Each Con-
flictBank example is processed by three agents,
each reading exactly one of the three sources. All
three agents share an identical extraction prompt
asking for structured claims and evidence-type tags
without choosing a final answer; per-agent identi-
fiers used in the implementation are bookkeeping
labels and are never exposed to the agent itself, to
the reader, or to the reconciler. The reconciler uses
the adaptive single-pass prompt that first classifies
Table 7: Evidence-type weights used by the software-
state resolver. Higher means stronger evidence.
Evidence type Weight
code-change 60
incident-hotfix 60
config-observation45
runtime-observation 40
branch-experiment25
human-note 12
stale-observation4
Git-commit bonus1[git_commit̸=/ 0] +40
a conflict as CREDIBILITYor COORDINATIONand
supersedes losers only in the CREDIBILITYbranch.
Crucially, neither the extractor nor the reconciler
receives any role label or source-name hint indicat-
ing which source is the authoritative, alternative,
or recent one. Source order is preserved across ex-
amples for replay determinism, but the reconciler’s
policy is stateless and content-driven: it scores a
claim from the evidence-type tags inferred from
each source’s text (e.g., explicit citations, recency
markers, or self-described source kind), not from
per-example position. The label-blind diff in Ta-
ble 8 also serves as an indirect robustness check:
removing the role names from the reader prompt
15

===== PAGE 16 =====

costs every baseline 8 to 15 accuracy points while
costing LatticeMind only 2, which is the opposite
of what would happen if LatticeMind relied on a
positional or role prior.
Same-pool baseline parity.All ConflictBank
methods see the same three sources presented un-
der the same neutral identifiers. SINGLE-AGENT
reads all three in one prompt; NO-MERGE, MA-
JORITYVOTE, DEBATE, and JUDGEall consume
the same three per-source extractions and differ
only in how answers are aggregated. The structural
overhead added by LatticeMind is the symbolic
checker (negligible cost) and the LLM reconciler,
invoked an average of 1.29 times per example on
the 75-sample run. The comparison is therefore not
between richer prompting and weaker prompting
but between explicit persistent conflict resolution
and answer-only aggregation over the same evi-
dence pool. The evidence-label question is isolated
by Table 8 rather than by the ablation table: remov-
ing role names from the reader prompt costs every
answer-level baseline 8 to 15 points while costing
LatticeMind 2, so the gain is not the evidence-tag
heuristic itself but the act of resolving incompatible
claims at write time. The final row of Table 1 is
a repeat of the full configuration, not an evidence
ablation; see Section 4.3.
Reconciler invocation rate.On the 75-sample
ConflictBank run, the symbolic checker reports
an average of 1.29 violations per example after
per-resource grouping (multiple overlapping con-
straints on the same resource are summarized into
one violation), and the reconciler is invoked once
per remaining violation. On the 50-sample ablation,
the full configuration, its repeat, and −reconciler
each report 3.0 ungrouped pairwise violations per
example (one per pair among three agents). The
−checker ablation reports 0 violations and so trig-
gers no reconciliation, while −reconciler surfaces
violations but cannot resolve them, raising the post-
hoc conflict rate to 0.08 or 0.10.
A.10 Label-blind vs. Label-aware
ConflictBank
Table 8 reports the impact of the label-blind proto-
col on every method. Renaming the three sources
to neutral identifiers (Source A/B/C) and removing
the trust hint from the reader prompt costs every
baseline 8 to 15 accuracy points. LatticeMind loses
only 2 points, which is consistent with our claim
that LatticeMind reads the resolved memory status
rather than the source name. The gap between Lat-
ticeMind and the strongest answer-level baseline
widens from 23 to 36 points under the label-blind
protocol.
Table 8: Effect of the label-blind protocol on Conflict-
Bank accuracy (75 samples). Original = source names
visible and trust hint present in reader prompt. Label-
blind = neutral Source A/B/C names, no trust hint. Lat-
ticeMind is robust to the change; every baseline drops
substantially.
Method Original Label-blind∆
Single-Agent 0.72 0.63−0.09
No-Merge 0.44 0.32 −0.12
Majority V ote 0.76 0.61−0.15
Debate 0.57 0.45 −0.12
Judge 0.68 0.60−0.08
LatticeMind 0.99 0.97 −0.02
A.11 Statistical Analysis
We complement the headline accuracies with boot-
strap confidence intervals and paired McNemar
tests on per-sample correctness. Bootstrap CIs use
10,000 resamples with a fixed seed over the per-
example correctness arrays written by the bench-
mark runners; McNemar uses the exact two-sided
binomial on the discordant pair counts (n01,n 10).
Table 9 reports the main label-blind ConflictBank
comparison and Table 10 reports the single-pass
ablation.
Table 9: ConflictBank bootstrap 95% CI and McNemar
tests vs. LatticeMind. Discordant pairs (n01,n 10) count
examples where the baseline is wrong/right when Lat-
ticeMind is right/wrong.
Method Acc. [95% CI] McNemarp(n 01/n10)
Single-Agent 0.63 [0.52, 0.73] 2.2·10 −7 (27/1)
No-Merge 0.32 [0.21, 0.43] 3.6·10−15 (49/0)
Majority V ote 0.61 [0.51, 0.72] 1.1·10 −7 (28/1)
Debate 0.45 [0.35, 0.57] 3.8·10−11 (40/1)
Judge 0.60 [0.49, 0.71] 5.8·10 −8 (29/1)
LatticeMind 0.97 [0.93, 1.00] reference
Every aggregation baseline is rejected at p<
10−6 (worst case 2.2·10 −7 for Single-Agent), with
discordant counts that are highly asymmetric: e.g.
NO-MERGEis wrong on 49 examples that Lattice-
Mind gets right and never wins on cases Lattice-
Mind misses. The narrow CI around 0.97 reflects
73/75 correct rather than a small-sample artifact;
even under the most adversarial bootstrap resam-
ples the lower bound stays at 0.93.
16

===== PAGE 17 =====

Table 10: Single-pass ablation, 50 samples. Bootstrap
95% CI and McNemar tests vs.full.
Configuration Acc. [95% CI] McNemarp(n 01/n10)
Full 0.96 [0.90, 1.00] reference
−checker 0.84 [0.74, 0.94] 0.07 (7/1)
−reconciler 0.82 [0.70, 0.92] 0.04 (8/1)
Full (repeat) 0.96 [0.90, 1.00] 1.00 (0/0)
The reconciler ablation is significant at p<0.05
and the checker ablation is borderline at p=0.07 .
Both directions are consistent with the headline
12 to 14 point drops, but the 50-sample size lim-
its power on individual flips. The repeat of the
full configuration produces zero discordant pairs,
which bounds run-to-run variance on this evidence
pool; it is a stability check, not an ablation.
Caveats.The reported p-values are conditioned
on a single decoding run with Qwen3-Max. Be-
cause each runner records per-example outcomes,
the McNemar and bootstrap tests in Tables 9 and 10
recompute deterministically from a run rather than
being reported as bare aggregates. The discordant-
pair counts are highly asymmetric (e.g. 49/0 against
NO-MERGE), so on this evidence pool the compar-
ative conclusions are robust to per-example flips.
Generalization across model families and decoding
seeds is a deliberate next step rather than a contra-
dicted claim; the released runners score any future
model or baseline on the same sampled examples
under a fixed seed.
Models, infrastructure, and tooling.The
prompt-based memory benchmarks reported in
the main paper use Qwen3-Max for both
memory operations and reader/task evaluation;
calls go through OpenRouter with default tem-
perature and a fixed system message per
role. The learned-operator study uses local
Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct QLoRA adapters (rank
16, alpha 32, all attention and MLP projections,
4-bit quantization). Statistical tests are recomputed
from the per-sample JSONs a run produces, by a
stand-alone script in the repository (no hidden ran-
dom state beyond a fixed bootstrap seed). Unit
and benchmark tests pass in the current repository
snapshot.
17