

===== PAGE 1 =====

Reconcile Once, Write Anytime: A Trust-Tiered Librarian and a
Multi-Agent Writer for Drift-Free, Point-in-Time Research
Xing Zhang, Yanwei Cui, Guanghui Wang, Peiyang He*
AWS Generative AI Innovation Center
Abstract
Long-form research reports generated by large language models
(LLMs) drift, contradict themselves, and lose provenance: the same
metric appears with different values in different sections, numbers
arrive without sources, and rumor is quoted as confidently as an
audited filing. We present a deployment-oriented two-tier agentic
system that separates amaintained, point-in-time knowledge library
fromreport writing. A deterministic “librarian” continuously ingests
public, timestamped sources into a trust-tieredontology, layering
evidence cards, an authoritative metric ledger, and a claim graph
into an always-current source of truth, not per-query RAG over
raw chunks. A portable multi-agent “writer” runtime then com-
poses a long, contradiction-free, evidence-grounded report at any
knowledge cutoff 𝑇 , reading only evidence with as_of≤𝑇 (no
look-ahead); red-team verdicts flow back into the librarian, closing
the loop. We evaluate on a self-collected, production-scale public
corpus of6,130 sourcesyielding555,926 evidence cards(SEC
EDGAR filings across 295 issuers and 11 sectors, U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics macro releases, and Wikipedia). From theoneli-
brary we compose four flagship point-in-time reports on distinct
theses (AI-compute, energy, healthcare/pharma, banks) and run
eight mechanical, reproducible experiments, whose headline met-
rics come from a deterministic quality-control (QC) gate, itself
validated by defect-injection meta-evaluation at recall1 .0andpre-
cision1 .0against negative controls. A shared metric ledger removes
6,845 cross-section figure contradictions to zero. Tier-first selection
is correct on22 /22gold cases where a popularity-first baseline
scores only9 /22; trust tiering leaks zero media-sourced numbers
into hard evidence, and no government statistic displaces a com-
pany’s own filing. A red-team refutation propagates back through
a source override and self-corrects a later run with zero manual ed-
its. Point-in-time replay exhibits zero look-ahead violations across
seven cutoffs while the library grows from 235,373 to 555,312 cards.
Finally, difficulty-tiered model routing with bounded parallelism
exceedsthe all-Opus quality ceiling on a graded score while running
3.7× faster than serial, with cost and latency recorded on every run.
Keywords
distributed multi-agent systems, agentic AI, parallel orchestration,
model routing, retrieval, report generation, trust tiering, point-in-
time evaluation, deployed systems
1 Introduction
Automated long-form research (equity notes, market landscapes,
due-diligence memos) is a natural target for LLM agents, yet naive
generation fails in ways that matter precisely where the stakes are
highest. Three failure modes recur. (i)Numeric drift: a report cites a
*Corresponding author:peiyan@amazon.com.
company’s capital expenditure as one figure in the revenue section
and a different figure in the capital-intensity section, because each
paragraph was grounded independently. (ii)Provenance loss: num-
bers appear with no traceable source, and the reader cannot tell an
audited disclosure from a fluent hallucination [13]. (iii)Trust flat-
tening: a pre-launch rumor and a filed 10-Q are quoted with equal
confidence, because the system has no notion of source authority.
Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) [10, 16] re-retrieves raw
chunks per query and grounds each answer in isolation, maintain-
ing noconsistent, evolvingbody of judgements, so contradictions
and stale figures recur at every generation; agentic writers [11, 24]
coordinate sections but inherit the same gaps. We argue the fix
is architectural: reconcile evidenceonceinto a maintained ontol-
ogy (trust-ranked, timestamped, incrementally updated), separated
from thewritingof any report, so consistency and provenance are
properties of the store, governed by source authority rather than
popularity.
We built such a system, validated it internally on a private cor-
pus, and evaluate it here on aproduction-scalepublic corpus (6,130
sources and 555,926 evidence cards across 295 issuers and 11 sectors,
from which we compose four flagship reports on distinct theses), as
anindustry case study with end-to-end reproducible results,
not a state-of-the-art (SOTA) claim. Our contributions:
(1) A coupled two-phase system(§2): a deterministic librarian
maintains a timestamped knowledge ontology, so new filings
incrementally refresh the source of truth without re-indexing
(Phase A); and a portable, model-routed multi-agent runtime
generates a point-in-time report at cutoff𝑇(Phase B).
(2) A distributed multi-agent writer with a shared-store coor-
dination substrate(§2.1): heterogeneous agents (per-section
composers and an adversarial red-team prosecutor) run under
bounded-concurrency parallelism and difficulty-tiered model
routing, coordinatedindirectlythrough the trust-tiered store
rather than by direct message passing, so concurrency never
costs cross-section consistency.
(3) Trust-tiered consistency mechanisms as deployed gov-
ernance(§3): an official-first metric ledger that ranks source
authorityabove popularity (tier → corroboration → recency), a
typed claim graph, and a six-check deterministic QC gate that
blocksdelivery and is itself meta-validated by defect injection
(E5), not a post-hoc score.
(4) A self-correcting write-back loop(§2): a report-side red-team
refutation flows back as a source override that self-corrects the
ledger at the next cutoff with no manual edits, and idempotent
regeneration flags any promoted claim whose approved evidence
silently vanishes (an “anchor swap”) for re-validation, so the
library only ever improves.
(5) A mechanical, meta-eval-validated evaluation(§5) others
can reuse, including the distributed-execution cost/latency of
arXiv:2608.12984v1  [cs.MA]  13 Aug 2026

===== PAGE 2 =====

Zhang et al.
routing and bounded parallelism (recorded on every run) and a
temporal point-in-timeresult the living library uniquely enables.
2 System
The system runs as two decoupled phases coupled by a timestamped
store and closed by a write-back loop (Fig. 1).
Phase A: the librarian (deterministic).A pipeline of deterministic
Python stages ingests public sources, recording each one’s true
publication date and trust tier. The librarian maintains knowledge
at three progressively-distilled layers: quote-groundedevidence
cards(raw facts, each pinned to a source quote), anauthoritative
metric ledger(one reconciled value per company-metric pair), and
aclaim graphof contradicts, supersedes, and qualifies edges
over those values. Each layer is derived deterministically from the
one below, so a number traces down to its source quote and up to
its conflicts. The core costs essentially nothing to re-run; an LLM is
used only at one clearly-bounded seam: a cheap refinement pass
(Claude Haiku 4.5) that corrects a numeric card’s value/unit against
its own quote or demotes it to qualitative. The headline metrics,
computed deterministically, are thus reproducible given a fixed
store. Appendix A traces one real metric through all three layers
and into a delivered report; Appendix C gives their required fields.
The bridge: point-in-time projection.Given a cutoff 𝑇 , the bridge
projects the store into the writer’s four artifacts (outline, evidence
cards, metric ledger, claim graph), filtering to as_of≤𝑇 . This is
the no-look-ahead seam: a report “as of” a past date sees exactly
the evidence that existed then. Object mapping is near 1:1 (both
tiers speak the same three layers), so the bridge is a data adapter,
not a rewrite.
Phase B: the portable writer runtime.The writer is a self-contained,
headless runtime over a tiered LLM provider and a bounded-con-
currency pool, with no dependency on an external agent framework,
so it embeds equally in a service or a batch job. Its orchestration
wraps a set of deterministic scripts (slice, tag-normalize, QC, render)
around the LLM calls. The workflow is a fixed directed acyclic graph
(DAG): slice each section → compose (one LLM call per section,
tier-routed) → normalize → red-team (a Claude Opus 4.8 “prosecu-
tor” per section that returns holds/weak/refuted verdicts) → apply
verdicts → a bounded rewrite of affected sections → determinis-
tic convergence backstop → QC gate → render. We use standard
multi-agent building blocks (file-per-agent artifacts, contract-first
outlines, tool-mediated deterministic checks) but implement them
in a runtime of our own, without binding to any external frame-
work [2].
Write-back loop.When the red-team refutes a card, the verdict
maps to a librarian source_override/claim refuted, so the next
run at the next cutoff inherits the correction: the store is a living
library, not a static dump. The write-back is guarded: an override
never invents a value, it only demotes the refuted source so the
ledger falls back to a pre-existing same-kind alternative, and every
change appends a row to an append-only audit log, so promotion is
human-gated and reversible. Regeneration is idempotent: it carries
a human promotion forward rather than resetting it, but snapshots
the exact evidence approved, so if that evidence later vanishes,
even when back-filled cards keep the count unchanged (an “anchor
swap”), the claim is flagged for re-validation, not silently kept.
Algorithm 1 states the two phases end to end.
2.1 The distributed multi-agent design
Phase B is where the system is genuinelydistributed, by deliberate
design.(1) Parallel per-section agents.The report outline is a
partition: each section is an independent compose task, and the
sections fan out across a bounded-concurrency pool (§3) rather
than being written serially. Sections are the natural unit of paral-
lelism because the outline contract makes them near-independent:
the only shared state is the metric ledger, read-only at compose
time.(2) Heterogeneous agents.A difficulty router sends conflict-
touching sections to a stronger, costlier model (Opus) and routine
sections to a cheaper one (Sonnet), so compute is spent where the
reasoning is hard: classic heterogeneous scheduling, applied to
LLM agents.(3) Separation of powers.Composition and criticism
aredifferentagents with opposing objectives: a composer writes
to satisfy the section contract, an independent Opus “prosecutor”
red-teams the draft to break it. Neither grades its own work, and
the arbiter that decides delivery is the deterministic QC gate, not
an LLM.(4) Coordination through a shared store, not mes-
sages.The agents never talk to each other directly; they coordinate
stigmergicallythrough the trust-tiered store: composers read the
same authoritative ledger, and the red-team writes verdicts back
to it. This adds parallelism without the usual multi-agent failure
mode of concurrent writers diverging: because the single authori-
tative value lives in the shared ledger rather than in each agent’s
context, two sections physically cannot cite different numbers for
the same metric. The distributed design thus buys throughput (§5,
E6)withoutpaying in consistency. Figure 3 (App. D) draws the four
mechanisms as one picture.
Why the fan-out is safe.The consistency guarantee is structural,
not a matter of scheduling. The bridge (§2) emits animmutable,
point-in-time snapshotat cutoff 𝑇 , and every composer reads from
that single snapshot, so within one run there are no concurrent
writers: no lock, barrier, or two-phase commit is needed, and the
classic shared-memory races (write–write, torn reads, deadlock)
cannot arise. The only writer is the red-team’s write-back, deferred
to thenextcutoff, never mid-run. Read-only fan-out over an im-
mutable snapshot makes each compose step idempotent and order-
independent, so the worker count 𝐾 trades latency against cost (E6)
but cannot change the delivered numbers.
3 Trust & Consistency Mechanisms
Source tiers and permitted use.Every source is typed from tex-
t/path cues and assigned a trust tier together with apermitted use
that governs whether its numbers may be cited: U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) filings becomeofficial(usable as hard
evidence), U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) macro-statistics
releases becomegov_stat(supporting evidence: authoritative, but
for macro context, not a company’s own figures), and Wikipedia
becomesmedia(routing only). The tiers are strictly ordered (offi-
cial > gov_stat > sell_side > media;sell_sideis analyst research,
used in company deployments but omitted here as it is not redis-
tributable, so it appears only in E4’s gold set): routing-only sources

===== PAGE 3 =====

Reconcile Once, Write Anytime: A Trust-Tiered Librarian and a Multi-Agent Writer for Drift-Free, Point-in-Time Research
A two-tier agentic system: maintain one library, write many point-in-time reports
A maintained trust-tiered store (Phase A), projected at a knowledge cutoff T, is composed into a contradiction-free, fully-cited report (Phase B); verdicts write back.
PHASE A · deterministic librarian build the living library no LLM in the core · costs≈0 to re-run
Public sources
SEC EDGAR · Wikipedia
Trust tiering
official > media
Evidence cards
quote-grounded
Metric ledger
1 authoritative + conflicts
Claim graph
contradicts · supersedes
Refine
Haiku, bounded edge
BRIDGE · point-in-time projection @ cutoff T
exports only evidence withas_of≤T— no look-ahead into the future 2024-12 2025-06 T = 2025-12 2026-07
PHASE B · portable multi-agent writer runtime headless; owns the runtime, no external framework LLM at the edges · deterministic gate
Slice per section
budget-capped
Compose
Opus / Sonnet routed
Red-team
Opus prosecutor
Apply verdicts
+ bounded rewrite
QC gate
6 machine checks
Grounded report
every number cited
write-back loop
verdict→source_override→next cutoff self-corrects
Model routing Opus 4.8 · hard Sonnet 5 · medium Haiku 4.5 · easy 0 cross-section conflicts every number cited 0 look-ahead violations
Figure 1: End-to-end system. Phase A (deterministic librarian) ingests timestamped public sources into trust-tiered evidence
cards, a metric ledger, and a claim graph. The cutoff dial selects a knowledge time 𝑇 ; only evidence with as_of≤𝑇 is exported.
Phase B (portable agent runtime) slices per section, composes with difficulty-tiered model routing, red-teams, and passes a
deterministic QC gate. Red-team verdicts feed back to the store.
Algorithm 1:Maintain library, write report @𝑇.
input :public sourcesS; cutoff𝑇; outlineO
output :grounded report𝑅; updated storeL
//Phase A: deterministic librarian (LLM-free core)
foreach𝑠∈ Sdo
tier,as_of←classify(𝑠)
cards←extract quote-grounded evidence from𝑠
ifnumeric&ambiguousthenHaiku-refine card vs. its quote
ledger←per (co., metric): pick by tier→corrob.→recency
graph←contradicts / supersedes / qualifies edges
//Bridge: point-in-time projection (no look-ahead)
𝐸𝑇 ← {𝑐∈ L:as_of(𝑐) ≤𝑇}; recompute ledger @𝑇
//Phase B: portable multi-agent writer
foreachsection𝜎∈ O(bounded parallel)do
𝐶𝜎 ←Slice(𝐸 𝑇 , 𝜎)capped by salience budget
𝑑𝜎 ←Opus if𝜎touches unresolved conflict else Sonnet
draft𝜎 ←normalize(Compose(𝐶 𝜎 ; model𝑑 𝜎 ))
𝑣𝜎 ←RedTeam(draft 𝜎 ) // Opus prosecutor
apply verdicts; bounded rewrite; deterministic convergence
backstop
whileQC(𝑅)≠∅androunds<capdo
rewrite flagged sections
foreachrefuted𝑣 𝜎 doWriteBack(L) //source_override
returnrender(𝑅),L
may inform entity/topic routing and context but can never become
a citable hard-evidence number, and a supporting-tier macro value
can never displace a company’s own official figure: the “official-first”
rule.
Metric ledger.For each (company, metric) the ledger selects one
authoritative value by a fixed policy:tierdominates, thencorrobo-
ration(distinct-source count) breaks ties within a tier, thenrecency
(as_of ). Competing values are retained as alternatives and flagged
as a conflict when a comparable same-kind figure materially dis-
agrees (a fixed > 15%threshold, so unit-equal restatements do not
spuriously fire), but the report cites the single authoritative value,
which is what eliminates cross-section drift.
QC gate (six deterministic checks).The delivery gate is language-
neutral and LLM-free: (1) orphan citations, (2) unsourced numbers,
(3) numeric drift across sections, (4) buried contradictions (a claim-
graph conflict whose two endpoints are not reconciled together),
(5) unregistered metrics, (6) cross-section contradiction. A report
is deliverable only when the error set is empty (the six checks are
specified in Appendix B). Because this gate computes the headline
metrics, we validate the gate itself (§5, E5).
4 Deployment & Dataset
We self-collected a public, redistributable, English-only corpus at
production scale(Table 1):6,130 sourcesextracting to555,926
evidence cards(457,561 numeric) and a metric ledger of 2,589 au-
thoritative company-metric values, 2,132 of them carrying recorded

===== PAGE 4 =====

Zhang et al.
Table 1: Self-collected corpus (public, timestamped, multi-
tier, multi-sector).
Property Value
Sources registered (total) 6130
official (SEC filings, hard evidence) 5397
gov_stat (BLS macro, supporting) 672
media (Wikipedia, routing only) 61
of which produced≥1 card 6054
Sectors covered 11
Companies (issuers) 295
Evidence cards 555926
Numeric cards 457561
Media→numeric leakage 0
Publication span 2023-06 – 2026-07
conflicts. The three tiers are 5,397 SEC EDGAR filings [23] (official)
for 295 issuers across 11 sectors, 672 U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
(BLS) macro releases (gov_stat: authoritative supporting context
that, carrying no company attribution, by design never enters the
per-company ledger), and 61 Wikipedia articles (media: routing and
context only, by design backing no numbers). Filings are fetched
keyless via the official EDGAR and BLS REST APIs with provenance
headers.
The design point isone library, many reports: a single main-
tained store serves multiple report theses rather than being purpose-
built for one. From this store we generate four flagship point-in-
time reports at a common cutoff (2025-12-31) (AI-compute, energy,
healthcare/pharma, and banks), each projected by the sector-scoped
bridge, and each passing the QC gate with zero errors. Breadth
matters for the evaluation too: the corpus contains thousands of
naturally-occurring cross-period and cross-source contradictions
(drift in remaining performance obligations, backlog, and capital
expenditure; restatements; revised guidance) across every sector,
never fabricated drift. Each source is retained under its issuing
API’s terms, with per-tier licensing recorded.
Because every source carries its true publication date, we replay
time by filtering the store to a cutoff (Phase B), mimicking “30/60/90
days later” without re-fetching: the production case where later
filings revise or contradict a value an earlier report relied on.
5 Evaluation
Every headline metric is machine-computed (no LLM decides a
reported number) and, where an ablation applies, compared on
theidenticalcorpus against an explicit baseline arm. Deterministic
experiments (E1, E3, E4, E5, E7, E8) are exact by construction; the
LLM-dependent cost/latency/quality comparison (E6) is run on the
real Bedrock backend over three repeats. All numbers in the tables
are emitted directly from the stored per-experiment result records
(reproduction steps in Appendix G); the headline results are also
charted together in Fig. 4 (App. E).
E1: a shared ledger removes cross-section drift.Without a shared
ledger, a writer grounding each section independently surfaces
every competing value for a metric; the ledger collapses each to
one authoritative value. On the real store at the final cutoff, the no-
ledger baseline would emit6,845contradictory figures across 2,105
metrics with competing values; ours emits0(Table 2). Replayed
across seven cutoffs, the ledger’s authoritative value changed4,732
times, andeverychange was justified by newer, higher-tier, or
more-corroborated evidence (0 unexplained).
E2: grounding.Across all four flagship theses composed from
the one library (AI-compute, energy, healthcare/pharma, banks;
cutoff 2025-12-31), every numeric-bearing body line must carry
an evidence citation or a metric annotation. Aggregate grounding
is202/203(99.5%) with0orphan citations and0unregistered
metrics; three reports are 100%, and the lone exception is a synthesis
sentence whose figures are each cited earlier in the same section.
E3: trust tiering suppresses rumor and quarantines macro con-
text.End-to-end on the real store, all three tiers classify correctly
(5,397 filings as hard_evidence, 672 BLS releases as supporting_
evidence (gov_stat), 61 Wikipedia articles asrouting_only,0mis-
classified), and0of the 457,561 numeric cards trace to a routing-only
source. The third tier is genuinely mined (2,352 numeric gov_stat
cards: CPI, PPI, payrolls, unemployment), yet because a macro
statistic carries no company attribution,0gov_stat values displace
a company’s own official figure and the per-company ledger stays
100% official: neither media nor macro statistics ever become a
citable number, and the invariant holds across the full production-
scale corpus (all 457,561 numeric cards, 295 issuers, 11 sectors).
E4: tier-first selection beats popularity.We run two selection poli-
cies on one labeled gold set of metric clusters: our tier-first ledger,
and a popularity-first baseline that takes the value with the most
distinct backing sources (the “most-cited”/semantic-layer heuristic),
ignoring tier. Tier-first is correct on22/22cases; popularity-first
scores only9/22(Table 3). Thirteen cases arepopularity traps: a
widely-repeated lower-tier value (a rumor echoed by several media
sources, or a corroborated macro statistic) competes with a single
official filing; the tier rule survives all thirteen, popularity adopts
the wrong value every time. The set spans the full configured lattice
(official > gov_stat > sell_side > media), including the invariant that
a newer, more-corroborated gov_stat value still cannot displace an
official figure (which gov_stat may anchor only when none exists),
and corroboration breaking ties onlywithina tier. It is adesigned
coverage lattice, not a sample: the cross-tier conflict it probes cannot
arise on this corpus (all2,589real ledger clusters are single-tier, as
gov_stat cards carry no issuer name and media is never mined for
a number), yet the within-tier rule is exercised at scale: over2,132
real conflicts our corroboration→recency policy differs from naive
newest-wins on973, far beyond the 22 gold cases.
E5: the checker is trustworthy (recallandprecision).A gate is
only trustworthy if it both catches real defects and stays quiet on
clean text. We clone a clean, QC-passing run and (i) inject five
defect classes (orphan citation, unsourced number, broken cross-
reference, unregistered metric, buried contradiction) and (ii) apply
threenegative controls: defect-free perturbations that mustnotfire
(a paragraph reusing only already-valid citations and metric tokens,
a duplicated grounded line, number-free prose). Recall is1.0(5/5)
and precision is1.0with a0false-positive rate on the controls
(Table 4). Crucially, we separate delivery-blocking from advisory
detection: the delivery gate is “error set empty, ” and3/3error-level
defects raise a blocking error, while the two warning-level defects

===== PAGE 5 =====

Reconcile Once, Write Anytime: A Trust-Tiered Librarian and a Multi-Agent Writer for Drift-Free, Point-in-Time Research
are caught but advisory by design. This disarms “graded your own
homework”: the gate that computes E1–E4 is itself validated on
both axes.
E6: in the distributed writer, parallelism and routing cut cost at
comparable quality.Isolating the multi-agent compose fan-out on
identical slices over three repeats (Table 5), bounded-concurrency
parallelism across the per-section agents runs3.7× faster than serial,
and difficulty-tiered routing (conflict-touching sections → Opus,
the rest → Claude Sonnet 5) costs4.1% lessthan sending every
section to Opus. The cost gap is deliberately modest on this flagship:
it is conflict-heavy, so 5 of 6 sections touch an unresolved edge
and correctly route to Opus, so routing saves little precisely when
the report is hard, and the same dial saves far more on a low-
conflict thesis. All four variants pass QC with zero errors, but a
binary gate cannot rank them, and all-Sonnet is the cheapest, so
“equal quality” needs an independent signal. We add a deterministic,
graded quality score (grounding coverage + conflict-pair coverage
+ output-contract adherence, computed on each variant’s actual
prose, independent of the QC gate). The counterintuitive result:
tiered routing scoresabovethe all-Opus ceiling ( +0.079) and far
above all-Sonnet (+0.262). Spending the strong model only where
reasoning is hard beats spending it everywhere, so the cheaper
all-medium point is not the default: it saves on easy sections but
degrades exactly the conflict-heavy synthesis that routes to Opus.
E7: the living library grows without look-ahead.Replaying the
store across seven cutoffs (Table 6, Fig. 2) yields0look-ahead viola-
tions and monotonic growth (235,373→555,312 cards; 1,659→6,054
card-bearing sources), capturing4,395post-initial evidence-arrival
events (new filings, restatements, new conflicts) and lifting recorded
metric conflicts from 1,770 to 2,132. This closes end to end at the re-
port level: regenerating the AI-compute flagship at three advancing
cutoffs yields a report that grows in lockstep (27,104→42,900 cards,
255→276 metrics, 562→655 reconciled conflict edges) while every
cutoff stays deliverable (QC errors = 0), and all four flagship theses
compose at the shared 2025-12-31 cutoff from this one library. A
static one-shot corpus cannot exhibit this: as real evidence arrives,
the library grows and corroboration rises.
E8: the write-back loop self-corrects a later run.Growth is only
half of “living”; the loop must also close oncorrections. We trace
one worked case end to end using the librarian’s real override ma-
chinery (Table 7, App. F). In this illustrative scenario the report-side
red-team challenges the authoritative interest figure ($19mn) after
flagging its backing filing as low-confidence. The verdict maps to a
librarian source_override (status retracted); on re-ingestion the
284 evidence cards from that filing inherit the non-active status, and
because the metric ledger considers only active-source cards, the
authoritative value self-corrects to $9mn, an already-recorded alter-
native, with0manual value edits. Tracing the same override path
on a batch of auto-discovered conflicted metrics, 5 of 6 write-backs
self-correct, each to a pre-existing same-kind alternative (0 manual
edits), so the loop closes on many values, not one, deterministically
and auditably.
Limitations.The corpus is English-only and three-tier as col-
lected (official SEC filings, gov_stat BLS macro statistics, media
Wikipedia; sell_side omitted, §3). The gov_stat tier is authoritative
Table 2: E1: cross-section figure drift (lower is better).
Condition
drift
figs
metrics w/
conflict
justified
drift
Baseline (no shared ledger) 6845 2105 —
Ours (shared ledger) 02105 —
Temporal drift, 7 cutoffs: 4732 changes, 100% evidence-justified, 0 unexplained.
Table 3: E4: authoritative-value selection vs. gold.
Gold case ours popularity-first
official beats 3×media rumor 𝑡 ✓✗
official beats newer 2x sell†𝑡 ✓✗
newer official wins tie✓ ✓
corrob tie-break✓ ✓
sell beats 2x media†𝑡 ✓✗
corrob>newer single✓ ✓
gov beats 3×media rumor 𝑡 ✓✗
official beats newer gov𝑡 ✓✗
official beats 2×gov 𝑡 ✓✗
gov fills absent official✓ ✓
gov corrob tie-break✓ ✓
newer gov revision wins✓ ✓
official beats 4×media rumor 𝑡 ✓✗
official beats 3×sell †𝑡 ✓✗
gov beats 2×media 𝑡 ✓✗
modal guards $-misparse✓ ✓
gov beats 2×sell †𝑡 ✓✗
official>gov>media (lattice) 𝑡 ✓✗
newer official on equal corrob✓ ✓
kind guard drops stray percent✓ ✓
official beats 5×media crowd 𝑡 ✓✗
official beats corrob newer gov𝑡 ✓✗
Accuracy 22/229/22
ours = tier-first (ledger policy). 𝑡 13 popularity traps (widely-repeated lower-tier value);
tier rule survives all 13. †configured-but-unused tier.
Table 4: E5: QC gate meta-evaluation, recall and precision
(defect injection plus negative controls).
Perturbation level QC outcome
orphan citation error caught, blocks delivery
unsourced number warning caught, advisory (warning)
broken xref warning caught, advisory (warning)
unregistered metric error caught, blocks delivery
buried contradiction error caught, blocks delivery
neg: reuse existing citations (clean) 0 new errors
neg: duplicate grounded line (clean) 0 new errors
neg: prose only no numbers (clean) 0 new errors
Recall 5/5=1.00,precision 1.00, FP-rate 0.00
over 3 controls; 3/3 error-level defects block delivery (rest advisory).
but macro-only: its releases carry no company attribution, so by
construction it enriches context, not the per-company ledger. En-
tity linking is substring-based, so it occasionally over-attributes a
metric when a company’s short name is a substring of unrelated

===== PAGE 6 =====

Zhang et al.
Figure 2: E7: point-in-time replay across seven cutoffs. Bars
(left axis) count sources newly available in each window; the
line (right axis) is the cumulative evidence-card base, which
grows monotonically with zero look-ahead (a report as of 𝑇
reads only as_of≤𝑇 ). The first bar is the pre-existing back-
catalog loaded at the opening cutoff, not a per-window rate.
Table 5: E6: cost/latency of routing and parallelism (compose
fan-out, real Bedrock).
Configuration mix $/rep wall (s) quality
All-hard (Opus), par. 6H/0M $2.35 64 0.714
All-medium (Sonnet), par. 0H/6M $0.49 47 0.531
Tiered, serial 5H/1M $2.26 184 0.801
Tiered, par. (ours)5H/1M$2.25 50 0.793
Mean over 3 repeats. Tiered vs all-hard: 4.1% cost saved, 3.7× faster than serial. Quality
(grounding+conflict+contract, indep. of QC): tiered−all-hard =+ 0.079, −all-medium
=+0.262; all pass QC.
Table 6: E7: living-library replay across cutoffs.
Cutoff𝑇cards sources metrics conflicts new src
2024-12-31 235373 1659 2279 1770 1659
2025-03-31 294477 2026 2343 1868 367
2025-06-30 337597 2430 2388 1921 404
2025-09-30 387741 2916 2462 2001 486
2025-12-31 439605 3597 2493 2026 681
2026-03-31 502134 4553 2544 2093 956
2026-07-23 555312 6054 2589 2132 1501
0 look-ahead violations; monotonic. New-src sums to 6054 card-bearing sources;
4395 post-initial arrivals (excl. the 1659 at the first cutoff).
filing text (e.g. “3M”); this is an auditable extraction artifact, not a
ledger-policy error. The E4 cross-tier gold set is designed rather than
sampled (the deployed corpus has no cross-tier clusters), though
the within-tier rule is corroborated on 2,132 real conflicts; E6 uses
a deterministic quality proxy, not human judgement; and E8 traces
write-back on a small batch. E1’s no-ledger arm isolates the ledger’s
effect, not a strong shared-state competitor (a graph- or semantic-
layer-backed retriever), the natural next comparison our design is
built to host.
6 Lessons & Related Work
Lessons.(i)Govern by trust, not popularity: a most-cited-value
heuristic adopts widely-repeated rumor, while an official-first ledger
is simpler and correct (E1, E3, E4). (ii)Keep the core deterministic, put
the LLM at the edges: deterministic selection, consistency, and QC
make the headline metrics reproducible and the gate meta-evaluable
(E5). (iii)Own the runtime: standard multi-agent building blocks (file-
per-agent artifacts, contract-first outlines) carry over cleanly to a
headless service without binding to any external agent framework.
(iv)Routing buys quality, not just cheapness: tiered composition
matches or beats the all-Opus ceiling while a uniform-cheap base-
line degrades, at modest dollar saving on a conflict-heavy report
(E6).
Related work. Grounding and citation.RAG grounds individual
answers [10, 16] per query rather than maintaining a reconciled
ontology, enforcing no cross-time consistency; Self-RAG [3] adds a
self-critique, the same model judging its own output, not a determin-
istic, meta-validated gate. Grounding metrics like FActScore [19]
and RAGAs [8], citation benchmarks like ALCE [ 9], and rubrics
like FinReasoning [30]scorewhether a text is supported but do
notgoverna living store; our QC gate blocks delivery, not a post-
hoc score. STORM [21] synthesizes Wikipedia-like articles from
retrieved sources but has no source-authority tier, metric ledger, or
point-in-time discipline.
Temporal and streaming settings.Closest istemporal/streaming
QA: TimeQA [4], StreamingQA [17], and RealTime QA [14] isolate
look-ahead and evolving knowledge, but forshort-answerques-
tions; we target long-form reports whose challenge iscross-section
consistency. GraphRAG [7] and GFM-RAG [18] reason over an enti-
ty/claim graph but carry no provenance-tier or point-in-time projec-
tion, reconciling per query not in a maintained store; MemGPT [20]
persists agent state without source-authority or no-look-ahead
discipline.
Agentic frameworks and verification.Agentic frameworks [ 11, 22,
24, 25] and toolkits such as LangGraph [ 15] provide the stateful
multi-actor graph we deliberatelydo notbind to, building a mini-
mal headless orchestrator of our own instead (Lesson iii). Verified
orchestration [27] closes a plan-verify-replan loop like ours, but we
keep the trust backbone and delivery gate deterministic and meta-
validated (E5), with human-gated promotion via an append-only
log (E8). Registry-driven grounding like REGAL [1] and ontology-
guided extraction like OntoMetric [26] share our deterministic-core
discipline but ground structured telemetry or a single-document
ESG graph, notunstructured, cross-documentevidence reconciled
into a timestamped ledger. Financial QA benchmarks [5, 12] and
FinCARDS [29] target intra-document reasoning; semantic-layer
analytics [6] share the “governed source of truth” intuition we ex-
tend to timestamped, trust-tiered evidence, with LLM-as-judge [28]
used only as a red-team.
7 Conclusion
Separating a maintained, trust-tiered, point-in-time library from
report writing turns long-form generation’s chronic drift, prove-
nance loss, and trust flattening into mechanically-checkable, largely
eliminated properties.

===== PAGE 7 =====

Reconcile Once, Write Anytime: A Trust-Tiered Librarian and a Multi-Agent Writer for Drift-Free, Point-in-Time Research
References
[1] Yuvraj Agrawal. 2026. REGAL: A Registry-Driven Architecture for Deterministic
Grounding of Agentic AI in Enterprise Telemetry.arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.03018
(2026).
[2] Anthropic. 2025. How we built our multi-agent research system. https://www.
anthropic.com/engineering/multi-agent-research-system.
[3] Akari Asai, Zeqiu Wu, Yizhong Wang, Avirup Sil, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2024.
Self-RAG: Learning to retrieve, generate, and critique through self-reflection. In
International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
[4] Wenhu Chen, Xinyi Wang, and William Yang Wang. 2021. A dataset for an-
swering time-sensitive questions. InAdvances in Neural Information Processing
Systems (NeurIPS) Datasets and Benchmarks.
[5] Zhiyu Chen, Wenhu Chen, Charese Smiley, Sameena Shah, Iana Borova, Dylan
Langdon, Reema Moussa, Matt Beane, Ting-Hao Huang, Bryan Routledge, and
William Yang Wang. 2021. FinQA: A dataset of numerical reasoning over financial
data.Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)(2021).
[6] Databricks. 2024. AI/BI Genie: Conversational analytics on the lakehouse. https:
//www.databricks.com/product/ai-bi.
[7] Darren Edge, Ha Trinh, Newman Cheng, Joshua Bradley, Alex Chao, Apurva
Mody, Steven Truitt, and Jonathan Larson. 2024. From local to global: A Graph
RAG approach to query-focused summarization.arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.16130
(2024).
[8] Shahul Es, Jithin James, Luis Espinosa-Anke, and Steven Schockaert. 2023. RA-
GAs: Automated evaluation of retrieval augmented generation.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.15217(2023).
[9] Tianyu Gao, Howard Yen, Jiatong Yu, and Danqi Chen. 2023. Enabling large
language models to generate text with citations. InEmpirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP).
[10] Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai,
Jiawei Sun, and Haofen Wang. 2023. Retrieval-augmented generation for large
language models: A survey.arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.10997(2023).
[11] Sirui Hong, Mingchen Zhuge, Jonathan Chen, Xiawu Zheng, Yuheng Cheng,
Ceyao Zhang, Jinlin Wang, Zili Wang, Steven Ka Shing Yau, Zijuan Lin, Liyang
Zhou, Chenyu Ran, Lingfeng Xiao, Chenglin Wu, and Jürgen Schmidhuber.
2024. MetaGPT: Meta programming for a multi-agent collaborative framework.
International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR)(2024).
[12] Pranab Islam, Anand Kannappan, Douwe Kiela, Rebecca Qian, Nino Scherrer,
and Bertie Vidgen. 2023. FinanceBench: A new benchmark for financial question
answering.arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.11944(2023).
[13] Ziwei Ji, Nayeon Lee, Rita Frieske, Tiezheng Yu, Dan Su, Yan Xu, Etsuko Ishii,
Ye Jin Bang, Andrea Madotto, and Pascale Fung. 2023. Survey of hallucination in
natural language generation.Comput. Surveys55, 12 (2023), 1–38.
[14] Jungo Kasai, Keisuke Sakaguchi, Ronan Le Bras, Akari Asai, Xinyan Yu, Dragomir
Radev, Noah A Smith, Yejin Choi, and Kentaro Inui. 2023. RealTime QA: What’s
the answer right now?Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS)(2023).
[15] LangChain. 2024. LangGraph: Building stateful, multi-actor applications with
LLMs. https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/.
[16] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir
Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim
Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe Kiela. 2020. Retrieval-augmented gen-
eration for knowledge-intensive NLP tasks. InAdvances in Neural Information
Processing Systems (NeurIPS), Vol. 33. 9459–9474.
[17] Adam Liška, Tomáš Kociský, Elena Gribovskaya, Tayfun Terzi, Eren Sezener,
Devang Agrawal, Cyprien de Masson d’Autume, Tim Scholtes, Manzil Zaheer,
Susannah Young, et al. 2022. StreamingQA: A benchmark for adaptation to new
knowledge over time in question answering models. InInternational Conference
on Machine Learning (ICML).
[18] Linhao Luo, Zicheng Zhao, Gholamreza Haffari, Dinh Phung, Chen Gong, and
Shirui Pan. 2025. GFM-RAG: Graph Foundation Model for Retrieval Augmented
Generation. InAdvances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
[19] Sewon Min, Kalpesh Krishna, Xinxi Lyu, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Pang Wei
Koh, Mohit Iyyer, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2023. FActScore:
Fine-grained atomic evaluation of factual precision in long form text generation.
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP)(2023).
[20] Charles Packer, Sarah Wooders, Kevin Lin, Vivian Fang, Shishir G Patil, Ion
Stoica, and Joseph E Gonzalez. 2023. MemGPT: Towards LLMs as operating
systems. InarXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08560.
[21] Yijia Shao, Yucheng Jiang, Theodore A Kanell, Peter Xu, Omar Khattab, and
Monica S Lam. 2024. Assisting in writing Wikipedia-like articles from scratch
with large language models. InNorth American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (NAACL).
[22] Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik Narasimhan, and
Shunyu Yao. 2023. Reflexion: Language agents with verbal reinforcement learn-
ing. InAdvances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
[23] U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 2024. EDGAR Full-Text Search and
REST API. https://www.sec.gov/edgar.
[24] Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran Wu, Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li
Jiang, Xiaoyun Zhang, Shaokun Zhang, Jiale Liu, Ahmed Awadallah, Ryen W
White, Doug Burger, and Chi Wang. 2024. AutoGen: Enabling next-gen LLM
applications via multi-agent conversation. InCOLM.
[25] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan,
and Yuan Cao. 2023. ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models.
InInternational Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR).
[26] Mingqin Yu, Fethi Rabhi, Boming Xia, Zhengyi Yang, Felix Tan, and Qinghua Lu.
2025. OntoMetric: An Ontology-Driven LLM-Assisted Framework for Automated
ESG Metric Knowledge Graph Generation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.01289(2025).
[27] Xing Zhang, Yanwei Cui, Guanghui Wang, Wei Qiu, Ziyuan Li, Fangwei Han,
Yajing Huang, Hengzhi Qiu, Bing Zhu, and Peiyang He. 2026. Verified Multi-
Agent Orchestration: A Plan-Execute-Verify-Replan Framework for Complex
Query Resolution.arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.11445(2026).
[28] Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu,
Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric P Xing, Hao Zhang,
Joseph E Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. 2023. Judging LLM-as-a-judge with MT-
Bench and Chatbot Arena.Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
(NeurIPS)(2023).
[29] Yixi Zhou, Fan Zhang, Yu Chen, Haipeng Zhang, Preslav Nakov, and Zhuohan
Xie. 2026. FinCARDS: Card-Based Analyst Reranking for Financial Document
Question Answering.arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.06992(2026).
[30] Yiyun Zhu, Yidong Jiang, Ziwen Xu, Yinsheng Yao, Dawei Cheng, Jinru Ding,
and Jie Xu. 2026. FinReasoning: A Hierarchical Benchmark for Reliable Financial
Research Reporting.arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.19254(2026).

===== PAGE 8 =====

Zhang et al.
A Worked artifact: one metric, end to end
We trace a single real metric, Oracle’s Remaining Performance
Obligations (RPO), through the three librarian artifacts and into the
delivered report, to make the data model concrete. All snippets are
verbatim from the store and a delivered run (identifiers abbreviated
for space).
(A) Evidence card.The deterministic extractor emits one quote-
grounded card per (source, metric) hit. The card carries the verbatim
quote, so every downstream number is auditable back to the filing
text:
{ "evidence_id": "ev_orcl_..._rpo_d0c7b8b4",
"source_id": "src_orcl_..._10_k",
"company": "Oracle", "metric": "RPO",
"quote": "Remaining performance obligations were
$638 billion and $138 billion as of May 31,
2026 and 2025, respectively.",
"metric_value": "$638 billion", "value_norm": 638000.0,
"value_kind": "money_mn", "source_tier": "official",
"as_of": "2026-06-22", "evidence_kind": "quantitative",
"source_status": "active" }
Listing 1: Evidence card (SEC 10-K, official tier).
(B) Metric ledger.For each (company, metric) the ledger selects
one authoritative value by tier → corroboration → recency and
retains the losers as alternatives with a disagrees flag: this is
what a section cites, and what makes cross-section drift impossible:
{ "metric_id": "mtr_oracle_rpo", "company": "Oracle",
"metric": "RPO", "authoritative_value": "$638.0bn",
"value_norm": 638000.0, "as_of": "2026-06-22",
"source_tier": "official", "value_conflict": true,
"basis_evidence_id": "ev_orcl_..._rpo_d0c7b8b4",
"alternatives": [
{"value": "$552.6bn", "as_of": "2026-03-11", "disagrees": false},
{"value": "$523.3bn", "as_of": "2025-12-11", "disagrees": true},
{"value": "$455.3bn", "as_of": "2025-09-10", "disagrees": true} ] }
Listing 2: Metric-ledger row with retained alternatives.
(C) Delivered report prose.The composed section writes numbers
not as literals but as symbolic ledger handles (e.g. {m_oracle_rpo:
authoritative}) that are substituted at render, and cites evidence-
card ids inline ( [E14847]), so no number is typed by hand and
every one is traceable. The rendered text reads:
“As of May 31, 2026, Oracle reported remaining performance
obligations (RPO) of $638.0bn, up sharply from $455.3bn
three quarters earlier [E14847][E14761]. . . . Oracle expects
to recognize only about 10% over the next twelve months
[E14847]. ”
(D) Claim-graph edge.Cross-source and cross-period tensions
are stored as typed edges; a supersedes edge is what lets a later
filing override an earlier value while both stay auditable:
{ "edge": "supersedes", "metric": "RPO", "company": "Oracle",
"from_evidence": "ev_orcl_..._rpo_d0c7b8b4", // $638.0bn @ 2026-06-22
"to_evidence": "ev_orcl_..._rpo_e1366a04", // $455.3bn @ 2025-09-10
"reason": "newer official filing, same metric" }
Listing 3: Claim-graph edge (supersedes).
B The QC gate (six deterministic checks)
The delivery gate is language-neutral and LLM-free; a report is
deliverable only when the error set is empty. Checks (1) and (4)–
(6) raise blocking errors; (2) is advisory (warning-level). Check (3)
cannot fire once one authoritative value backs every annotation
(the drift E1 removes structurally). E5 validates the gate by defect
injection.
(1) Orphan citation: a citation marker with no backing evidence
card.
(2) Unsourced number: a numeric body line with neither an evi-
dence citation nor a metric annotation.
(3) Numeric drift: the same metric rendered with two different
values across sections (the drift E1 eliminates).
(4) Buried contradiction: a claim-graph conflict whose two end-
points are not reconciled in the same place.
(5) Unregistered metric: a metric handle cited but absent from
the ledger.
(6) Cross-section contradiction: mutually inconsistent statements
across sections.
C Ontology schemas
Both tiers speak the same three objects, which is why the bridge
is a data adapter rather than a rewrite. Required fields (from the
JSON-Schema definitions the two tiers share):
•EvidenceCard:evidence_id,project_id,source_id,fact,
source_tier,confidence;quoterequired when
allowed_use=hard_evidence.
•MetricLedger row:metric_id,company,metric,
authoritative_value,value_norm,source_tier,
basis_evidence_id,as_of,alternatives.
•Claim:claim_id,subject,predicate,object,
supporting_evidence,contradicting_evidence.
D The distributed writer, illustrated
Figure 3 draws the four design points of §2.1 as one picture: the
outline is a partition whose sections a difficulty router assigns to
a model tier (heterogeneous agents); the sections fan out across a
bounded-concurrency pool of composer/red-team pairs (parallelism
and separation of powers); and the agents coordinate only through
the shared trust-tiered store (read at compose time, written back
by the red-team) rather than by messaging each other (stigmergic
coordination). The single authoritative value lives in the store, so
no two sections can cite different numbers for the same metric even
while they run concurrently.
E Results at a glance
Figure 4 visualizes the headline quantitative results whose exact
figures are tabulated in §5, on a2 × 3grid: tier-first vs. popularity-
first selection (E4), QC defect-injection recall and precision (E5),
ledger growth with fully-justified drift (E1), and the E6 cost, latency,
and graded-quality trade-off across routing variants.
F Write-back trace
Table 7 traces the one worked write-back correction of E8 (§5) step
by step: a red-team refutation maps to a librarian source override
that self-corrects the ledger’s authoritative value at the next cutoff.

===== PAGE 9 =====

Reconcile Once, Write Anytime: A Trust-Tiered Librarian and a Multi-Agent Writer for Drift-Free, Point-in-Time Research
The distributed writer: heterogeneous section agents over one shared store
The outline is a partition; sections fan out to model-routed composer/prosecutor pairs that coordinate only through the shared store — never with each other.
Outline = partition
difficulty router assigns a model tier
Financials conflict→Opus
Risk factors conflict→Opus
Products routine→Sonnet
Outlook routine→Sonnet
Model routing
Opus 4.8 · hard
Sonnet 5 · routine
compute spent where the
reasoning is hard
Bounded-concurrency pool ≤K workers run at once (here K = 3)
separation of powers: the composer writes, an independent prosecutor tries to break it — neither grades its own work
Composer · Opus
§ Financials
Red-team prosecutor
Opus · holds / weak / refuted
Composer · Opus
§ Risk factors
Red-team prosecutor
Opus · holds / weak / refuted
Composer · Sonnet
§ Products
Red-team prosecutor
Opus · holds / weak / refuted
Composer · Sonnet
§ Outlook · queued
waiting for a free slot
per-section draft + verdicts
QC gate
deterministic arbiter
Grounded report
every number cited
Shared trust-tiered store
metric ledger · one authoritative value per metric · claim graph
read-only at compose time→two sections cannot cite different numbers for one metric
read
authoritative value
write-back
verdicts / overrides
stigmergic: no agent-to-agent messages
0 cross-section conflicts parallelism→lower cost & latency (E6) throughput up, consistency unchanged
Figure 3: The distributed multi-agent writer (Phase B, §2.1). The report outline is partitioned into sections; a difficulty router
sends conflict-touching sections to Claude Opus 4.8 and routine ones to Claude Sonnet 5. Sections fan out across a bounded-
concurrency pool (≤𝐾workers), each a composer paired with an independent Opus red-team “prosecutor” that cannot grade
its own work. Agents never message each other: they coordinatestigmergicallythrough the shared trust-tiered store (reading
the single authoritative value per metric and writing verdicts back), so parallelism never costs cross-section consistency. A
deterministic quality-control gate, not an LLM, is the final arbiter.
Table 7: E8: a red-team refutation writes back and self-
corrects the ledger.
Write-back step state
Metric (worked case) issuer𝑋, interest
Authoritative value (before) $19mn
Red-team verdictrefutedon backing filing
Librarian actionsource_override: retract; 284 cards
re-stamped
Authoritative value (after)$9mn(prior alternative)
Metrics self-corrected (batch) 5 of 6 traced
Manual value edits (all cases) 0
G Reproducibility
Deterministic experiments (E1, E3, E4, E5, E7, E8) run with no cloud
and reproduce exactly from a fixed store; E6 hits the real Bedrock
backend. Every table and figure is emitted programmatically from
the stored per-experiment result records. The deterministic experi-
ments run against an offline stub backend, and each source’s per-tier
licensing and fetch parameters are recorded with the stored corpus.
H Ethical, legal, and societal considerations
The system operates only on public, timestamped financial sources
used under each source’s terms (with per-tier licensing docu-
mented): it ingests and reports metrics but never emits any cus-
tomer, personal, or otherwise non-public data, and every delivered
figure is traceable to its source, so provenance is auditable rather
than obscured.

===== PAGE 10 =====

Zhang et al.
(a) E4: selection accuracy vs. gold (22/22vs.9/22)
 (b) E5: QC recall & precision (1.00/1.00)
 (c) E1: ledger growth & drift (100%of4,732justified)
(d) E6: cost / report (USD)
 (e) E6: wall-clock latency (s)
 (f) E6: graded quality (0–1)
Figure 4: Headline results as vector charts (companion to Tables 2–5), on a2 × 3grid: top row, the consistency and evaluation
results (E4/E5/E1); bottom row, the E6 cost/latency/quality trade-off across routing variants (ours in teal: cost at the all-Opus
level,3.7×faster than serial, quality above the ceiling).